---
layout: page
title: "Q169704: XADM: Quota Ignored When Rule-Originated Message is Sent"
permalink: kb/169/Q169704/
---

## Q169704: XADM: Quota Ignored When Rule-Originated Message is Sent

	Article: Q169704
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): winnt:5.0,5.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbusage
	Last Modified: 04-NOV-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, versions 5.5, 5.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	A mailbox on Microsoft Exchange Server may grow very large; its expansion is
	limited only by available disk space. This can occur when a rule has been
	created that forwards mail to an address where another agent causes mail to be
	returned to the user. This cycle results in a continuous flow of mail between
	the automatic agents, expanding the mailbox.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	Microsoft Exchange Server version 5.0 does not check mailbox limits if the mail
	message is generated by a rule. This allows the automatic mail to continue
	indefinitely, consuming disk resources and generating excessive mail traffic.
	Mailbox size limits are checked when the mail is user- generated.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a problem in Microsoft Exchange Server
	version 5.0. This problem has been corrected in the latest U.S. Service Pack for
	Microsoft Exchange Server version 5.0. For information on obtaining the service
	pack, query on the following word in the Microsoft Knowledge Base (without the
	spaces):
	
	  S E R V P A C K
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	
	NOTE: In Exchange Server version 5.5 Service Pack 3 a rule can start regardless
	of the mailbox or public folder quota limits. This was first changed to correct
	the situation in which meeting requests are not delivered if the recipient
	mailbox is full. For additional information about that situation, click the
	article number below to view the article in the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q217139 XADM: Meeting Requests Are Not Delivered if Recipient's Mailbox Has
	  Exceeded the Storage Limit and Has a Delegate Defined
	
	However, you can create the following registry key to troubleshoot a rapidly
	growing information store on an Exchange Server 5.5 Service Pack 3 computer:
	
	  HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Services\MSExchangeIS\ParametersPrivate
	
	  Value Name: Apply Mailbox Quota to Rules
	  Data Type: Reg_DWORD
	
	If this value is not 0, messages sent by rules still have the mailbox quota
	checked. If the value is not present or is 0 (the default in Service Pack 3),
	messages sent by rules ignore the mailbox quota for sending messages.
	
	IMPORTANT: If you set mailbox quotas to rules, there may be side effects. For
	example, if you set a forward and delete rule, it may result in data loss, and
	if you set meeting requests to go only to the delegate, neither may receive the
	request if the mailbox is over the limit.
	
	Additional query words: full office service provider loop
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbusage 
	Technology        : kbExchangeSearch kbExchange500 kbExchange550 kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : winnt:5.0,5.5
	Issue type        : kbbug
	Solution Type     : kbfix
	
	=============================================================================
	
