---
layout: page
title: "Q127802: PRB: Debugger Loses Source/Disassembly File Mapping"
permalink: /kb/127/Q127802/
---

## Q127802: PRB: Debugger Loses Source/Disassembly File Mapping

{% raw %}

	Article: Q127802
	Product(s): Microsoft C Compiler
	Version(s): 2.0,2.1,4.0,5.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbDebug kbide kbVC200 kbVC210 kbVC400 kbVC500 kbVC600
	Last Modified: 11-JUN-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- The Integrated Debugger, used with:
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Editions, versions 2.0, 2.1, 4.0 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Enterprise Edition, version 5.0 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Professional Edition, version 5.0 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++.NET (2002) 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	If you choose Cancel when asked for the location of a source file while
	debugging, you will not get another chance to map the disassembly code to its
	corresponding source file.
	
	For example, suppose that you have moved a source file belonging to the debug
	version of a program to some other directory. When you step into that code in
	the debugger, you will get a dialog box asking where the source file is located.
	If you then choose to Cancel that dialog box, a Disassembly window will be
	opened for the source. If you continue debugging and later step through the code
	that causes the same source file to be opened again, Visual C++ will
	automatically open up the Disassembly window and will not ask again for the
	source location.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	In trying to prevent asking the user for a file's location over and over again,
	Visual C++ does not display the dialog box again if you chose Cancel the first
	time. If you subsequently decide that you really do want to see the source for a
	file, you must follow the steps listed below in the Resolution section.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	Use the following steps to work around this behavior:
	
	1. Close the Disassembly window.
	
	2. Open the source file in an editor window.
	
	3. Step into the code generated by that source, or double-click the current
	  frame (the top) of the call stack. In Visual C++ 2.x, the Call Stack window
	  can be opened by selecting Debug | Call Stack from the Visual Workbench main
	  menu. In Visual C++ 4.0, the Call Stack window can be opened by choosing Call
	  Stack from the View menu. This step reestablishes the source link.
	
	Thereafter, the debugger will not open the Disassembly window for code generated
	from that source, but will open the source file itself. You may reopen the
	Disassembly window if you wish, and it will be properly mapped to the open copy
	of the source file. If that source file is later closed and then needs to be
	reopened in the editor, you will once again be asked for the location of the
	file.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	This behavior is by design.
	
	Additional query words: IDE
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbDebug kbide kbVC200 kbVC210 kbVC400 kbVC500 kbVC600 
	Technology        : kbVCsearch kbAudDeveloper kbIntegratedDebugger
	Version           : :2.0,2.1,4.0,5.0
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
