---
layout: page
title: "Q163037: FIX: Label Properties Cause Illegal Operation"
permalink: /kb/163/Q163037/
---

## Q163037: FIX: Label Properties Cause Illegal Operation

	Article: Q163037
	Product(s): Microsoft FoxPro
	Version(s): 5.0a 5.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbprogramming kbvfp kbvfp500aBUG kbvfp500bugkbbuglist
	Last Modified: 23-MAR-2000
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual FoxPro for Windows, versions 5.0, 5.0a 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	Running a program that instantiates a form containing a label that has
	properties of Autosize and WordWrap together causes a stack fault.
	
	In Windows 95, the message shows a dialog box with Visual FoxPro as its title
	saying the following:
	
	  This Program has performed an illegal operation and will be shut down.
	
	The Details button opens a message saying the following:
	
	  VFP caused a stack fault in module VFP.EXE.
	
	In Windows NT, the message is in a Dr. Watson dialog box and says the following:
	
	  An application error has occurred and an application error log is being
	  generated. VFP.exe - Exception: stack overflow [0xc00000fd].
	  Address<...>.
	
	After the error message appears, VFP shuts down.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	The error does not occur if the label properties include either AutoSize or
	WordWrap, but not both.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a bug in the Microsoft products listed at the
	beginning of this article. This has been corrected in Visual FoxPro 6.0.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The same error may occur from a label on a form generated by the Form Builder.
	The workaround in that situation is different. For more information on that form
	of the problem, please see the following article in the Microsoft Knowledge
	Base:
	
	  Q162253 PRB: Form Builder Form Causes Illegal Operation
	
	Steps to Reproduce Behavior
	---------------------------
	
	Copy the following code into a program named LabelTest.prg, then run the
	program:
	
	  
	
	     ********************************************************
	     *- LabelTest.prg
	     *-  A program to demonstrate the effect of combining the
	     *-  Autosize and WordWrap properties on a label.
	     ********************************************************
	     PUBLIC x
	     x=CREATEOBJECT("Form")
	     x.AddObject("mylabel","test")
	     x.Visible=.t.
	
	     DEFINE CLASS test AS label
	       AutoSize = .T.
	       WordWrap = .T.
	
	       PROCEDURE Init
	         LOCAL lcTest,lcname
	         lcname=THIS.NAME+"A" && Get a unique name
	         THIS.PARENT.ADDOBJECT(lcname,'label')
	         lcTest=lcname
	
	         WITH THIS.PARENT.&lcTest
	           .AUTOSIZE=THIS.AUTOSIZE
	           .WORDWRAP=THIS.WORDWRAP   && Comment this line for success.
	           .VISIBLE=.T.
	         ENDWITH
	       ENDPROC
	    ENDDEFINE
	
	
	Additional query words: kbvfp600fix
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbprogramming kbvfp kbvfp500aBUG kbvfp500bug kbbuglist
	Technology        : kbVFPsearch kbAudDeveloper kbVFP500 kbVFP500a
	Version           : 5.0a 5.0
	Issue type        : kbbug
	Solution Type     : kbfix
	
	=============================================================================
	
