---
layout: page
title: "Q149047: How to Specify Informational Text for VB4 OLE Servers"
permalink: /kb/149/Q149047/
---

## Q149047: How to Specify Informational Text for VB4 OLE Servers

	Article: Q149047
	Product(s): Microsoft Visual Basic for Windows
	Version(s): 4.00 | 4.00
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 11-JAN-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Standard Edition, 32-bit, for Windows, version 4.0 
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Professional Edition, 16-bit, for Windows, version 4.0 
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Professional Edition, 32-bit, for Windows, version 4.0 
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Enterprise Edition, 16-bit, for Windows, version 4.0 
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Enterprise Edition, 32-bit, for Windows, version 4.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	OLE automation servers created with Visual Basic 4.0 can expose informational
	text in various places to enable OLE automation clients to identify and use them
	easily. The actual strings that are viewable from an OLE automation client can
	be set within the Visual Basic OLE server project. This article outlines the
	places that the information should be entered and modified, as well as where it
	will appear in external locations.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The two locations within Visual Basic where these settings can be changed are
	the Project tab of the Options dialog box and the Member Options dialog box
	available from the Object Browser. The Project tab contains both Project Name
	and Application Description text boxes. If a class module is selected in the
	Object Browser, pressing the Options button will display a dialog box containing
	a Description text box.
	
	Project Name in Options
	-----------------------
	
	The Project Name field in the Options dialog box contains the first part of what
	is known as the programmatic ID or ProgID of any class exposed by the OLE
	server. The class name (as specified in the Properties window for the class
	module) provides the second part of the ProgID.
	
	For example, assuming the string MyOLEServerProj was entered in the Project Name
	field, and a public class module existed in that project with the name
	MyPublicClass, then the ProgID for that class would be:
	
	     MyOLEServerProj.MyPublicClass
	
	A key with this entry will be made in the HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT predefined key in the
	registry when the project is compiled to an executable or run in the design
	environment. OLE uses this registry key to determine what server to use when
	anyone attempts to create an object from an OLE automation client. If multiple
	public classes exist in a project, there will be multiple entries made to the
	registry containing the same initial identifier. For example, given
	MyPublicClass1, MyPublicClass2, and MyPublicClass3, the following three keys
	would be created in the registry:
	
	     MyOLEServerProj.MyPublicClass1
	     MyOLEServerProj.MyPublicClass2
	     MyOLEServerProj.MyPublicClass3
	
	The Project Name string is also used as the name of the library or project in the
	Libraries/Projects drop-down combo box displayed by the Object Browser.
	
	Application Description in Options
	----------------------------------
	
	The Application Description field in the Options dialog box provides a location
	to specify a single string identifying the OLE server. The string entered in the
	Application Description text box will be displayed in the References dialog box
	by Visual Basic 4.0 (and other VBA clients). This string will be displayed as an
	entry in the Available References list box and as the title of the frame below
	the list box that shows location and language information for the selected OLE
	server. If the Application Description text box has been left blank, Visual
	Basic will use the string in the Project Name field as a replacement. The
	Application Description string will also be used by the Object Browser as the
	description for the OLE server in the Libraries/Projects drop-down combo box.
	
	The application description information is compiled into the type library that is
	part of each server EXE or DLL generated by Visual Basic 4.0. Any client that is
	written to query type libraries for this information will be able to retrieve
	and display it. When the References dialog box is opened, Visual Basic is doing
	exactly that: its running through all registered classes and retrieving this
	information for display in the References dialog box.
	
	Example Application Description Strings
	---------------------------------------
	
	  Microsoft DAO 3.0 Object Library
	  Microsoft Visual Basic 4.0 Development Environment
	  OLE/Messaging 1.0 Object Library
	
	Additional examples can be seen by simply viewing the entries in the References
	dialog box.
	
	Description in Object Browser Options Dialog Box
	------------------------------------------------
	
	After displaying the Object Browser and selecting a class module in the
	Classes/Modules list box, the button on the Object Browser labeled Options is
	enabled. Pressing this button displays the Member Options dialog box. This
	dialog box can be used to set and modify the descriptions for both a class
	module in general and also specifically for each public member (function,
	subroutine, or property) of the class module.
	
	This information will be used by the Object Browser to display a help string for
	the selected class or the selected member of a class. This string is displayed
	at the bottom of the Object Browser dialog box.
	
	Follow these steps to see an example of this behavior:
	
	1. In an existing OLE server project, press F2 to display the Object Browser.
	
	2. In the Libraries/Projects drop-down combo box, select a public class module.
	  If no previous description has been entered, the area to the right of the
	  question mark button at the bottom of the Object Browser will be blank.
	
	3. With the class module selected, press the Options button.
	
	4. Enter a suitable text string in the Description text box of the Member
	  Options dialog box. Notice that the Member Name is listed as the name of the
	  public class. If a class module AND a public function, subroutine, or
	  property, had been selected in step 2, Member Name would be the name of this
	  public member. In this case the description entered would apply only to the
	  selected member.
	
	5. Choose OK to return to the Object Browser. Notice that the string entered in
	  step 4 now appears next to the question mark button at the bottom of the
	  Object Browser dialog box. Any OLE automation client can access and display
	  this information.
	
	Additionally, where Visual Basic 4.0 add-ins are concerned, the description for a
	public class module entered in the Member Options dialog box is the description
	that will be displayed in the Available Add-Ins list box displayed by the Add-In
	Manager.
	
	
	The Help Context ID field in the Member options dialog box can be utilized to
	link a specific part of a help file to each class module and public member. The
	entry listed in the Help File label is whatever help file has been specified in
	the Help File section of the Project Tab of the Options dialog box. For more
	information on how to provide help in this manner, see the online help and the
	Visual Basic 4.0 manuals.
	
	Additional query words: 4.00 vb4win vb4all listbox combobox dropdown
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbVBSearch kbAudDeveloper kbVB400Search kbVB400 kbVB16bitSearch
	Version           : 4.00 | 4.00
	
	=============================================================================
	
