---
layout: page
title: "Q200256: INFO: Assembly Output from Visual C++ Compiler May Not Assemble"
permalink: /kb/200/Q200256/
---

## Q200256: INFO: Assembly Output from Visual C++ Compiler May Not Assemble

{% raw %}

	Article: Q200256
	Product(s): Microsoft C Compiler
	Version(s): winnt:4.0,5.0,6.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbCompiler
	Last Modified: 03-MAY-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- The C/C++ Compiler (CL.EXE), included with:
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Editions, version 4.0 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Enterprise Edition, version 5.0 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Professional Edition, version 5.0 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Enterprise Edition, version 6.0 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Professional Edition, version 6.0 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Learning Edition, version 6.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	The Visual C++ compiler provides the /FA switch to generate an assembly file
	(.asm) as part of the output although it may be possible to assemble this source
	file without any errors. Microsoft does not recommend using a Macro Assembler;
	that is, for example MASM, on the .asm files generated by the Visual C++
	compiler. Such use of assembly files generated in this fashion is not supported
	by Microsoft.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	To generate an assembly file listing complete the following steps:
	
	1. Select Project and click Settings.
	
	2. Click the C/C++ tab.
	
	3. Choose Listing Files for the category.
	
	4. Select Assembly-Only Listing as the Listing File Type.
	
	NOTE: Assembly files generated by the C/C++ compiler are for informational use
	only.
	
	Additional query words: MASM ML /FA
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbCompiler 
	Technology        : kbVCsearch kbAudDeveloper kbCVCComp
	Version           : winnt:4.0,5.0,6.0
	Issue type        : kbinfo
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
