---
layout: page
title: "Q148961: XADM: Event ID 9037 Advising Increased JET Tables"
permalink: /kb/148/Q148961/
---

## Q148961: XADM: Event ID 9037 Advising Increased JET Tables

	Article: Q148961
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): winnt:4.0,5.0,5.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbusage exc4 exc5 exc55
	Last Modified: 23-OCT-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, versions 4.0, 5.0, 5.5 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you run the Microsoft Exchange Server information store, the following
	error appears in the Windows NT Event Log:
	
	  Event:9037
	  Source:MSExchangeIS Private
	  Type:Error
	  Category:None
	  Description:
	
	  No database session was available to satisfy a request. The registry value
	  SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\MSExchangeIS\ParametersPrivate\ Sessions
	  may be set too low for the level of activity on this server.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	This event ID is caused by slow response times from calls made to JET by the
	information store. By default, the information store opens 60 JET tables during
	initialization. In some cases this may not be adequate. Event ID 9037 is an
	error from the MSExchangeIS warning that the number of tables should be
	increased on the specific server receiving the error.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	Increase the number of JET tables by adding the following registry setting under
	the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE subtree under the following subkey:
	
	  SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\MSExchangeIS\ParametersPrivate
	
	1. Highlight the ParametersPrivate key. From the Edit menu, select Add Value.
	  Add Value Name of "Sessions" and select Data Type as REG_DWORD. Select OK.
	  Add value of 70 in Data dialog box and select Decimal. Choose OK.
	
	2. Restart the MSExchangeIS and monitor for the 9037 Event ID.
	
	  If this Event ID occurs again you will want to increase the sessions again
	  until the error has been eliminated. Each Jet table that is opened will
	  consume additional RAM on the machine so you will not want to configure this
	  beyond what is necessary to avoid the error.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	This related error can also be generated by the MSExchange Public IS.
	
	  Event:9038
	  Source:MSExchangeIS Public
	  Type:Error
	  Category:None
	  Description:
	
	  No database session was available to satisfy a request. The registry value
	  SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\MSExchangeIS\ParametersPublic\ Sessions may
	  be set too low for the level of activity on this server.
	
	If this error occurs, the same changes outlined above apply. However, the
	"Sessions" addition should be added under the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE subtree under
	the following subkey:
	
	  SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\MSExchangeIS\ParametersPublic
	
	
	For additional information, click the article number below to view the article in
	the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q218439 XADM: PerfMon Counters for Monitoring Exchange DB Sessions
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbusage exc4 exc5 exc55 
	Technology        : kbExchangeSearch kbExchange500 kbExchange550 kbExchange400 kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : winnt:4.0,5.0,5.5
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	
