---
layout: page
title: "Q162732: FIX: No WizardBar When Editing the Object: theApp"
permalink: /kb/162/Q162732/
---

## Q162732: FIX: No WizardBar When Editing the Object: theApp

{% raw %}

	Article: Q162732
	Product(s): Microsoft C Compiler
	Version(s): 4.0,4.1,4.2
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbide kbVC kbVC400bug kbVC410bug kbVC420bug kbVC600fix kbGrpDSTools
	Last Modified: 30-JUL-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual C++, versions 4.0, 4.1, 4.2 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	If you select a file by double-clicking "theApp" in the Globals list in
	ClassView, the WizardBar in the editor is not available. The WizardBar remains
	disabled even if the Workspace window is switched to FileView.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a bug in the Microsoft products listed at the
	beginning of this article. This problem was corrected in Microsoft Visual C++,
	version 6.0.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Step to Reproduce Behavior
	--------------------------
	
	1. Load an application generated by the Microsoft Foundation Class AppWizard.
	
	2. On the Globals list in the ClassView, double-click theApp. This brings up the
	  application's main .cpp file.
	
	3. Notice there is no WizardBar for the file. Switch to FileView. Again, there
	  is no WizardBar.
	
	4. Bring up the shortcut menu in the file editor. The toolbar, that is the
	  WizardBar, is grayed out and cannot be enabled.
	
	5. Close the file and then re-open the file from FileView. Now the WizardBar is
	  visible, and it can be enabled or disabled by clicking "toolbar" in the
	  file's shortcut menu.
	
	6. Switch back to ClassView. If you click functions defined in the .cpp file
	  such as InitInstance, the WizardBar is available.
	
	Additional query words: utilities
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbide kbVC kbVC400bug kbVC410bug kbVC420bug kbVC600fix kbGrpDSTools 
	Technology        : kbVCsearch kbVC400 kbAudDeveloper kbVC410 kbVC420
	Version           : :4.0,4.1,4.2
	Issue type        : kbbug
	Solution Type     : kbfix
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
