---
layout: page
title: "Q231232: SMS: Performance Issues for CCIM Working on a 23-Hour Cycle"
permalink: /kb/231/Q231232/
---

## Q231232: SMS: Performance Issues for CCIM Working on a 23-Hour Cycle

	Article: Q231232
	Product(s): Microsoft Systems Management Server
	Version(s): 2.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbnetwork kbClient kbConfig kbServer kbsms200 kbCAP kbDiscovery
	Last Modified: 08-DEC-2000
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Systems Management Server version 2.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	In large network environments where computers are shut off each day, network
	performance issues may be observed when the computers are turned on each
	morning, even when logon scripts are not used. This behavior can be caused by
	the Client Configuration Installation Manager (CCIM) on several different
	computers going though a maintenance cycle at the same time.
	
	The CCIM is a Systems Management Server (SMS) client component that is
	responsible for ensuring that each client is correctly installed and assigned to
	the correct site. Another benefit of the CCIM cycle is that changes to the
	Client Agents performed in the SMS Administrator Console are automatically
	propagated to the clients during the cycle. The CCIM also keeps the client data
	and the SMS site server data synchronized by creating discovery data records and
	determines which optional components should be installed.
	
	During the CCIM cycle, there is usually nothing copied between the Client Access
	Point (CAP) and the client, except when the Client Agents have changed or when a
	discovery record (heartbeat discovery) needs to be sent to the site server
	through the CAP.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Initially, the CCIM cycle is set to occur every 23 hours, starting with when the
	client software was installed. However, if a computer misses the CCIM cycle
	because it is turned off, the CCIM runs at power-up (for Microsoft Windows NT
	and Windows 2000 computers) or logon (for Windows 95 and Windows 98 computers),
	regardless of the 23-hour cycle. The 23-hour cycle is then computed from the
	power-up or logon time, unless the computer or the SMS Client Service is
	restarted during the day. Changing the CCIM interval does not alter this
	behavior.
	
	For a user who logs on at 8:00 A.M. each morning, the CCIM interval is set to
	7:00 A.M. the next day (23 hours later). If the computer is not powered-up
	(Windows NT and Windows 2000 computers), or the user is not logged on (Windows
	95 and Windows 98 computers) at 7:00 A.M. the next day, CCIM wakes up only when
	the user powers-up or logs on at 8:00 A.M.
	
	If several computers are powered up each morning at approximately the same time,
	the network traffic generated by each computer, although minimal, may be
	compounded so that there is a noticeable effect on the network.
	
	On large sites and for scalability reasons, it is recommended that you lock your
	workstation rather than logging off or shutting down; doing so helps minimize
	network traffic.
	
	Additional query words: prodsms
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbnetwork kbClient kbConfig kbServer kbsms200 kbCAP kbDiscovery 
	Technology        : kbSMSSearch kbSMS200
	Version           : :2.0
	Issue type        : kbinfo
	Solution Type     : kbnofix
	
	=============================================================================
	
