---
layout: page
title: "Q318441: SMS: SQL Server Processes SMS 2.0 Queries Very Slowly"
permalink: /kb/318/Q318441/
---

## Q318441: SMS: SQL Server Processes SMS 2.0 Queries Very Slowly

	Article: Q318441
	Product(s): Microsoft Systems Management Server
	Version(s): 2.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbenv kbtool kbsms200
	Last Modified: 05-MAY-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Systems Management Server version 2.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	Queries that are processed by a computer that is running Microsoft SQL Server
	may run very slowly. This problem has been noted by using Systems Management
	Server (SMS) 2.0 queries that are generated by SMS or third-party sources, but
	may be seen with any query that is running on SQL Server version 7.0 and later.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	This behavior may occur if the SQL Server "Minimum Query Memory" setting is
	incorrectly configured. The default value is 1,024 kilobytes (KB). When this
	value is set to a very large value, SQL Server first tries to allocate the
	pre-set memory before it runs the query. This causes delays when SQL Server
	consumes the memory that is requested.
	
	WORKAROUND
	==========
	
	To work around this behavior, set the SQL Server "Minimum Query Memory" setting
	correctly. For information about how to do so, please view the SQL Server Books
	Online.
	
	Additional query words: prodsms
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbenv kbtool kbsms200 
	Technology        : kbSMSSearch kbSMS200
	Version           : :2.0
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	
