---
layout: page
title: "Q102074: How to Run a dBASE IV Report File in FoxPro"
permalink: kb/102/Q102074/
---

## Q102074: How to Run a dBASE IV Report File in FoxPro

	Article: Q102074
	Product(s): Microsoft FoxPro
	Version(s): MS-DOS:2.5,2.5a,2.5b,2.6; WINDOWS:2.5,2.5a,2.5b,2.6,3.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kb3rdparty
	Last Modified: 05-FEB-2000
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual FoxPro for Windows, version 3.0 
	- Microsoft FoxPro for MS-DOS, versions 2.5, 2.5a, 2.5b, 2.6 
	- Microsoft FoxPro for Windows, versions 2.5, 2.5a, 2.5b, 2.6 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	You can run dBASE IV reports without any modification by using the .FRG report
	files generated by dBASE, as shown below.
	
	In FoxPro version 2.6, the application used to convert dBASE .FRM files to .FRX
	files is executed when you choose Migrate Files from the Run menu. The Catalog
	Manager will convert the .FRM files automatically when these files are run or
	modified.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	In FoxPro for MS-DOS, you can run a dBASE .FRG report file with the REPORT FORM
	command; for example, REPORT FORM <filename>.FRG. FoxPro compiles the .FRG
	program into an .F4X file and runs the report.
	
	In FoxPro for Windows, you must use the DO command instead. FoxPro compiles the
	.FRG report into an .FXP file and runs the report. For example:
	
	  USE <database name>
	  LOCATE
	  DO <report name>.FRG WITH .T.,.F.,.T.,"This is the heading"
	
	NOTE: You must use the LOCATE command because there is a CONTINUE command in the
	main DO WHILE loop generated by dBASE. The DO command parameters shown above
	correspond to NOEJECT, PLAIN, SUMMARY, and an additional title line,
	respectively.
	
	NOTE: dBASE is manufactured by a vendor independent of Microsoft; we make no
	warranty, implied or otherwise, regarding this product's performance or
	reliability.
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	"Migration Guide," version 2.5, pages 8-9
	
	Additional query words: VFoxWin FoxDos FoxWin
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kb3rdparty 
	Technology        : kbVFPsearch kbAudDeveloper kbFoxproSearch kbZNotKeyword3 kbFoxPro250DOS kbFoxPro250aDOS kbFoxPro250bDOS kbFoxPro260DOS kbFoxPro260 kbFoxPro250 kbFoxPro250a kbFoxPro250b kbVFP300
	Version           : MS-DOS:2.5,2.5a,2.5b,2.6; WINDOWS:2.5,2.5a,2.5b,2.6,3.0
	
	=============================================================================
	
