---
layout: page
title: "Q200815: NetBEUI Data Transfer Hangs on Intergraph Workstation"
permalink: kb/200/Q200815/
---

## Q200815: NetBEUI Data Transfer Hangs on Intergraph Workstation

	Article: Q200815
	Product(s): Microsoft Windows NT
	Version(s): winnt:4.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kb3rdparty kbnetwork
	Last Modified: 06-AUG-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Windows NT Server version 4.0 
	- Microsoft Windows NT Workstation version 4.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	NOTE: The information in this article applies to Windows NT 4.0 on an Intergraph
	TD300 150-MHz single-x86-processor workstation with an onboard AMD PCNET PCI
	Ethernet network adapter.
	
	When a program fills between 50 and 100 percent of physical memory and a large
	file is copied from the computer to a network client, the NetBEUI stack may stop
	responding (hang). When this occurs, the following symptoms may also occur:
	
	- The file-copy process stops.
	
	- Microsoft Windows 95 network clients are unable to connect to the computer.
	
	- No outbound connections can be made to network clients from the computer.
	
	- Event ID 9011 is generated on the server.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	The AMD PCNET PCI Ethernet network adapter driver that is included with Windows
	NT 4.0 causes this problem.
	
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	To resolve this issue, obtain the current driver from the Intergraph Web site:
	
	  http://www.intergraph.com
	
	Microsoft provides third-party contact information to help you find technical
	support. This contact information may change without notice. Microsoft does not
	guarantee the accuracy of this third-party contact information.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The following event is a sample event that may be generated by this behavior:
	
	6/19/98  5:06:37 PM  Nbf  Information  None  9011  N/A  <ServerName>
	The description for Event ID ( 9011 ) in Source ( Nbf ) could not be found.
	It contains the following insertion string(s): 
	\Device\Nbf_AMDPCN1, Nbf, FRMR.
	
	
	
	Additional query words: freeze
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kb3rdparty kbnetwork 
	Technology        : kbWinNTsearch kbWinNTWsearch kbWinNTW400 kbWinNTW400search kbWinNT400search kbWinNTSsearch kbWinNTS400search kbWinNTS400
	Version           : winnt:4.0
	Hardware          : x86
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	
