---
layout: page
title: "Q168137: XCON: Exchange to MCI and Sprint Interoperability"
permalink: /kb/168/Q168137/
---

## Q168137: XCON: Exchange to MCI and Sprint Interoperability

	Article: Q168137
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): winnt:4.0,5.0,5.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): exc4 exc5 exc55
	Last Modified: 23-DEC-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, versions 4.0, 5.0, 5.5 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	Messages sent from Microsoft Exchange Server X.400 Connector to MCI and then
	relayed to Sprint (telemail) may have problems and subsequently get rejected by
	Sprint's message transfer agent (MTA). However, no non-delivery report (NDR) is
	generated by the Sprint MTA. The message is then placed in Sprint's MTA bad mail
	directory.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	Sprint MTAs do not accept messages containing Per-Domain-Bilateral information.
	
	When MCI relays the message, a service downgrade from the 1988 standard to the
	1984 standard takes place so Sprint can accept the message. MCI MTAs should then
	discard the bilateral domain information in the P1 but do not, causing Sprint
	MTAs to reject the message. No NDR by Sprint MTA is possible because Sprint is
	no longer able to read the originator/recipient (O/R) address from the P1, which
	would be malformed in this instance.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	Microsoft Exchange MTA can be configured to suppress generation of Per-
	Domain-Bilateral information at the originating Exchange Server MTA.
	
	To disable the Per-Domain-Bilateral information, please see the following article
	in the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q157358 XCON: Per-Domain-Bilateral-Info and Third Party Systems
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : exc4 exc5 exc55 
	Technology        : kbExchangeSearch kbExchange500 kbExchange550 kbExchange400 kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : winnt:4.0,5.0,5.5
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	
