---
layout: page
title: "Q164011: WD97: Default Bullet Format Lost After Reopening HTML File"
permalink: /kb/164/Q164011/
---

## Q164011: WD97: Default Bullet Format Lost After Reopening HTML File

{% raw %}

	Article: Q164011
	Product(s): Word 97 for Windows
	Version(s): WINDOWS:97
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbwdinternet
	Last Modified: 14-NOV-2000
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Word 97 for Windows 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	If you use the Web Page Wizard to generate an HTML document that contains
	bullets, clicking the Bullet button on the Standard toolbar may not give you a
	bullet of the same style if you have closed and reopened the HTML document.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	The bullets generated by the Web Page Wizard are .gif pictures. They are not
	created with the standard internal bulleting mechanism that Word 97 uses in
	non-HTML documents.
	
	Closing and reopening the HTML document runs the HTML tags through the HTML
	converter and the current status of the default bullet is lost.
	
	WORKAROUND
	==========
	
	To work around this problem, use either of the following methods.
	
	Method 1
	--------
	
	Re-insert the bullet you want by clicking the Format menu and clicking Bullets
	and Numbering. You may need to click the More button to choose other .gif images
	to be used as bullet images.
	
	Method 2
	--------
	
	Click one of the bullets in your document and then use the Copy and Paste
	commands to use the bullet with a new line of text.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a problem in the Microsoft products listed at
	the beginning of this article.
	
	This problem has been corrected in Word 2000.
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	For more information about using bullets and numbering with Web pages, click the
	Office Assistant, type "HTML bullets" (without the quotation marks), click
	Search, and then click to view "Learn about bullets and numbering on Web
	pages."
	
	NOTE: If the Assistant is hidden, click the Office Assistant button on the
	Standard toolbar.
	
	Additional query words: 97 picture dot
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbwdinternet 
	Technology        : kbWordSearch kbWord97 kbWord97Search kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : WINDOWS:97
	Issue type        : kbbug
	Solution Type     : kbfix
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
