---
layout: page
title: "Q200645: SMS: Dumpsend.exe: Display Send Request for SMS 2.0"
permalink: /kb/200/Q200645/
---

## Q200645: SMS: Dumpsend.exe: Display Send Request for SMS 2.0

{% raw %}

	Article: Q200645
	Product(s): Microsoft Systems Management Server
	Version(s): winnt:2.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbsms200 kbSender kbsmsUtil kbSMSSender
	Last Modified: 31-JUL-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Systems Management Server version 2.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	The Dump Scheduler Data tool (Dumpsend.exe) displays the contents of a send
	request file (.srq). The data can be used to troubleshoot software distribution
	or to gather more information about sender errors. Dumpsend.exe is in the
	Support\Reskit\Bin\<Platform>\Diagnose directory of the Systems Management
	Server 2.0 CD. Use the following syntax :
	
	  DUMPSEND [send request filename]
	
	Send request files are located in the
	
	  SMS\Inboxes\Schedule.box\Outboxes\<LAN>\
	
	directory, where <LAN> is the Standard sender.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The send request consists of the following records:
	
	- SEND REQUEST DATA - Information about the send request file.
	
	- CANCEL - Specifies whether this send request is cancelled.
	
	- ACTION CODE - Specifies the action for this send request.
	
	- PACKAGE FILE - Specifies the location of the Package file.
	
	- INSTRUCTION FILE - Specifies the location of the Instruction file.
	
	- ROUTING - Specifies the originating site, and the destination site for
	  routing this Send Request.
	
	- CONFIRMATION - Specifies whether confirmation is requested.
	
	The following is sample output generated by Dumpsend.exe:
	
	  
	
	 Microsoft Systems Management Server v2.0 (Build 1165)
	 Copyright (C) 1994-1997 Microsoft Corp.
	
	 SEND REQUEST DATA RECORD
	
	     Length:       336
	     Priority:         2
	     Dest Site:        A00
	     Job:              00000001
	     Job request:      _001BP1
	     Outbox:           \\MICHAELTP\SMS_BP1\inboxes\schedule.box\outboxes\LAN
	     Preferred Address *
	     Ignore Schedule:  0
	
	 Sender/scheduler RECORD
	
	     Length:       80
	
	  ==============================================
	
	       Sender status:            SREQ_STATUS_STARTED
	       First sender started at:  (not set)
	       Sender started at:        (not set)
	       Sender ended at:          (not set)
	       Sender gate heartbeat at: Tue, Nov 17 1998 11:53
	       Scheduler to restart at:  (not set)
	       Total bytes to send:      0
	       Bytes left to send:       0
	       Sync Point is:            0
	       File type is:             0 (No file)
	       Number of connects:       0
	       Sender ID:
	
	  ============= End of Dump ==============
	
	 CANCEL RECORD
	
	     Length:       4
	     Mode:         Not cancelled
	
	 ACTION CODE RECORD
	
	     Length:       4
	     Code:         0
	
	 PACKAGE FILE RECORD
	
	     Length:       61
	     File:         \\MICHAELTP\SMS_BP1\inboxes\schedule.box\tosend\00000001.PPT
	
	 INSTRUCTION FILE RECORD
	
	     Length:       61
	     File:         \\MICHAELTP\SMS_BP1\inboxes\schedule.box\tosend\00000001.IPT
	
	 ROUTING RECORD
	
	     Length:       540
	     Routing Master Request ID:
	     Job Originating Site:
	     Job Final Destination Site:
	
	 CONFIRMATION RECORD
	
	     Length:       4
	     Confirmation Needed:           1
	
	Additional query words: SRS SRQ prodsms swdist32 smssvr
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbsms200 kbSender kbsmsUtil kbSMSSender 
	Technology        : kbSMSSearch kbSMS200
	Version           : winnt:2.0
	Issue type        : kbinfo
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
