---
layout: page
title: "Q199960: XADM: XFOR: T-shooting Notes/SNADS/PROFS/GW Connectors"
permalink: /kb/199/Q199960/
---

## Q199960: XADM: XFOR: T-shooting Notes/SNADS/PROFS/GW Connectors

{% raw %}

	Article: Q199960
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): 4.0,5.0,5.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 06-AUG-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, versions 4.0, 5.0, 5.5 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	Microsoft Exchange Server and Windows NT Server have a number of administrative
	tools that may be used for administration and troubleshooting in combination
	with the Microsoft Exchange Connectivity Administrator. These tools include:
	
	- Exchange Queue Viewer
	- Exchange Message Tracking
	- Windows NT Event Log
	
	Exchange Queue Viewer
	---------------------
	
	The Queue Viewer is a tool available in the Microsoft Exchange Administrator
	program. It may be used to monitor the main mail queues implemented by each
	connector and to verify that mail is moving through the system.
	
	These Exchange MAPI queues should be checked whenever a message delivery problem
	occurs. A long queue usually indicates a stuck message, but may also imply a
	physical connection problem, or incorrect configuration. The Queue Viewer may be
	used to delete, NDR (return to sender), or export stuck messages that are
	impeding the flow of other messages through the system.
	
	To access the Queue Viewer, follow these steps:
	
	1. From the Microsoft Exchange Administrator program, expand the tree view under
	  the Organization container.
	
	2. Expand the Configuration view under the Site icon.
	
	3. Double-click Connections.
	
	4. Double-click the connector you want in the Connections list, which appears on
	  the right side of the window. The connector property page will appear.
	
	5. Click the Queue Viewer tab, and the Queue Viewer property page appears. Use
	  the online Help for a complete description of this property page.
	
	Using Exchange Message Tracking
	-------------------------------
	
	Message Tracking is a tool available in the Exchange Administrator program. All
	of these connectors write information to the tracking log for all messages
	routed in or out of the connector.
	
	To use the Exchange Administrator program to view these messages, on the Tools
	menu, select Track Message, and type the server name in the Server Browse
	window.
	
	Several ways of finding the log messages are available. Please refer to the
	Microsoft Exchange Server Administrator's Guide for further details.
	
	Using Windows NT Event Notification
	-----------------------------------
	
	All connectors will write messages about their operation to the Windows NT
	application event log. Connector-related messages are distinguished from those
	generated by other applications by the source labels MSExchangeCoCo,
	MSExchangeNotes, MSExchangeSNADS, and so on.
	
	These events may be viewed using the Windows NT Event Viewer, a feature of the
	Administrative Tools.
	
	The Event field displays the event's severity level. This level is configurable
	from the Exchconn.ini file, in the [LSDEVNT] section, level = <integer>.
	Options range from 0 (no messages) to 5 (debug messages).
	
	Sample section of Exchconn.ini file:
	
	; Standard ENS NT Event Log logging device
	       ;[LSDEVNT]
	        level=1
	
	Use the default (level 1) for normal operations, and change it only if asked to
	do so by Microsoft Products Support Services. This may be done for
	troubleshooting purposes.
	
	Level 1 messages map to Windows NT Event Viewer's error messages, and are easily
	identified by a red icon at the far left. All other connector severity levels
	map to Windows NT information messages, and are identified by a blue icon at the
	far left.
	
	Please refer to the Microsoft Exchange Server Administrator's Guide if you need
	more information about viewing the Windows NT event log.
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbExchangeSearch kbExchange500 kbExchange550 kbExchange400 kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : :4.0,5.0,5.5
	Issue type        : kbinfo
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
