---
layout: page
title: "Q106724: Debugger Message EE0029 Cannot Access User Memory"
permalink: /kb/106/Q106724/
---

## Q106724: Debugger Message EE0029 Cannot Access User Memory

	Article: Q106724
	Product(s): Microsoft Fortran Compiler
	Version(s): 1.0,1.0a
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 03-NOV-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft FORTRAN PowerStation for MS-DOS, versions 1.0, 1.0a 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	The PowerStation debugger displays the following message
	
	  EE0029 Error: Cannot access user memory
	
	in the Watch window when a formal argument of a subroutine or function cannot be
	displayed. A formal argument can be viewed only if the current point of
	execution is within the subprogram accepting the formal argument. Once the first
	line of the subprogram has been executed, the formal arguments display correctly
	in the Watch window.
	
	This problem does not occur with FORTRAN PowerStation 32.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The EE0029 error can be generated by following these steps:
	
	1. Build the sample code with the project in debug mode.
	
	2. Set a breakpoint on the line with "a = c+1.2" and GO (press F5).
	
	3. Set a watch on a and c. The value for c will be:
	
	  EE0029 Error: Cannot access user memory.
	
	4. Single step once and the value of c will now be displayed.
	
	Sample Code
	-----------
	
	  Compile options required: /Zi
	        real*4 b
	        b = 2.
	        call sub (b)
	        end
	
	        subroutine sub (c)
	        integer*4   a
	        real*4      c
	        a = c+1.2
	        print*, a
	        return
	        end
	
	Additional query words: kbinf 1.00 nofpsnt
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbAudDeveloper kbFortranSearch kbZNotKeyword3 kbFORTRANPower100DOS kbFORTRANPower100aDOS
	Version           : :1.0,1.0a
	
	=============================================================================
	
