---
layout: page
title: "Q119572: WFWG: Printer Alerts Not Received with WinPopUp"
permalink: /kb/119/Q119572/
---

## Q119572: WFWG: Printer Alerts Not Received with WinPopUp

	Article: Q119572
	Product(s): Microsoft Windows 3.x Retail Product
	Version(s): WINDOWS:3.11
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 03-OCT-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Windows for Workgroups version 3.11 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	Printer alerts from Print Manager that are displayed through WinPopUp do not
	appear on some machines; however, WinPopUp messages generated by other users are
	properly received and displayed.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	The following three situations prevent WinPopUp from displaying printer alerts:
	
	- The presence of a SendPrintMessages=No entry in the [Network] section of the
	  SYSTEM.INI file on the print server.
	
	  -or-
	
	- A computer name with more than 15 characters.
	
	  -or-
	
	- A computer name or user logon name that contains a space (including a
	
	trailing space).
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	To prevent this problem, use the appropriate method below:
	
	- Remove the SendPrintMessages=No entry in the [Network] section of the
	  SYSTEM.INI file. The presence of this entry prevents printer alerts on any
	  computer connected to the shared printer.
	
	  -or-
	
	- Limit computer names to fewer than 15 characters. Windows for Workgroups has
	  a NetBIOS-imposed limitation of 15 characters for server (computer) names and
	  12 characters for share names.
	
	  -or-
	
	- Do not use spaces in computer names. When a space is included in a computer
	  name, all characters after the space are truncated for a printer alert. This
	  means that the alert is either not sent to the proper machine, or it is sent
	  to a nonexistent machine. If the truncated computer name does not exist on
	  the network, no error message is generated.
	
	  NOTE: Although you can use spaces in server and share names in Windows for
	  Workgroups, it is not recommended. Spaces can prevent other computers from
	  being recognized by Windows NT version 3.1 machines. Also, if a Windows for
	  Workgroups post office server name or share name contains any spaces, Windows
	  for Workgroups Mail clients cannot connect to the post office. If you want to
	  include white space, an underscore character can be used instead. For
	  example, instead of \\COMPUTER NAME, use \\COMPUTER_NAME.
	
	Additional query words: notify notification
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbAudDeveloper kbWFWSearch kbWFW311
	Version           : WINDOWS:3.11
	
	=============================================================================
	
