---
layout: page
title: "Q177611: NWConv Incorrectly Measures Disk Space Larger Than 4 GB"
permalink: /kb/177/Q177611/
---

## Q177611: NWConv Incorrectly Measures Disk Space Larger Than 4 GB

	Article: Q177611
	Product(s): Microsoft Windows NT
	Version(s): WinNT:4.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbfaq
	Last Modified: 09-AUG-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Windows NT Server versions 3.51, 4.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you attempt to migrate data from a NetWare server to a partition on a
	computer running Windows NT Server with more than 4 GB of free space using the
	Migration Tool for NetWare (Nwconv.exe), you may receive a warning that not
	enough free space exists to transfer the files.
	
	Additionally, the Migration Tool for NetWare may incorrectly report insufficient
	disk space when migrating more than 4 GB of data to a smaller Windows NT Server
	partition.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	The Migration Tool for NetWare does not correctly calculate disk space values
	over 4 GB. When the variable used to calculate disk space exceeds 4 GB, the
	value is reset to 0 while the variable continues to be incremented.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	For target or destination volumes larger than 4 GB, you must manually verify
	whether the amount of data you are transferring is less than the amount of space
	available on the target partition. After you have verified that enough free
	space does exist on the destination partition, you can continue past the disk
	space warning message generated by the Migration Tool for NetWare, and all files
	are migrated successfully.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a problem in Windows NT Server versions 3.51
	and 4.0.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	As an example of the incorrect calculation, the Migration Tool for NetWare
	incorrectly reports a partition with 6 GB of free space as having only 2 GB of
	free space (6 GB - 4 GB = 2 GB). A partition with 10 GB of free space is also
	incorrectly reported as having only 2 GB of free space (10 GB - 4 GB - 4 GB = 2
	GB).
	
	The same problem applies to the calculation of disk space to be allocated for a
	migration. The Migration Tool for NetWare reports that only 2 GB of space needs
	to be allocated when migrating a NetWare volume with 10 GB of data.
	
	Additional query words: nwconv migrate convert
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  kbfaq
	Technology        : kbWinNTsearch kbWinNT351search kbWinNT400search kbWinNTSsearch kbWinNTS400search kbWinNTS400 kbWinNTS351 kbWinNTS351search
	Version           : WinNT:4.0
	Hardware          : ALPHA x86
	Issue type        : kbbug
	
	=============================================================================
	
