---
layout: page
title: "Q112334: Hollerith Constants in Argument Lists"
permalink: kb/112/Q112334/
---

## Q112334: Hollerith Constants in Argument Lists

	Article: Q112334
	Product(s): Microsoft Fortran Compiler
	Version(s): 1.0,1.0a,4.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kberrmsg
	Last Modified: 02-NOV-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft FORTRAN PowerStation for MS-DOS, versions 1.0, 1.0a 
	- Microsoft Fortran Powerstation 32 for Windows NT, versions 1.0, 4.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	The use of Hollerith constants outside of a FORMAT specifier is not part of the
	FORTRAN 77 specification. Any use of Hollerith constants in an argument list is
	undocumented and unsupported. Using Hollerith can cause the following compiler
	and linker errors:
	
	  F2202: defined with different number of arguments
	  F2608: Hollerith illegal with CHARACTER
	  F2624: too few actual arguments
	  LNK4016: unresolved external symbol
	
	In Microsoft FORTRAN PowerStation, the error generated by the linker is LNK4516.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	When Hollerith constants are used in the argument list of a function or
	subroutine call, the size of the string is not passed. To the compiler, this
	looks like references to a function or subroutine with one of the arguments
	missing. To the linker, this looks like a reference to a different function or
	subroutine.
	
	To generate the F2202 error, combine B.FOR and D.FOR into one file and compile
	it:
	
	     copy b.for+d.for test.for
	     fl32 /c test.for
	
	To generate the F2608 and F2624 errors, combine A.FOR and B.FOR into one file and
	compile it:
	
	     copy a.for+b.for test.for
	     fl32 /c test.for
	
	To generate LNK4016, build A.FOR, B.FOR, and either C.FOR or D.FOR:
	
	     fl32 a.for b.for d.for
	
	To create a working program that uses both definitions of "TEST", build all four
	files together:
	
	     fl32 a.for b.for c.for d.for
	
	Note that this produces a LNK4006 warning that refers to the undecorated symbol
	"_TEST". This name is not used by the program, and therefore the warning can be
	ignored.
	
	Executing A.EXE produces:
	
	  Test Quoted: Big Test
	  Test Hollerith: Big Test
	
	No specific compiler options are required for any of the samples.
	
	Sample Code A.FOR
	-----------------
	
	         call test('Big Test')
	         call test_hollerith()
	         end
	
	Sample Code B.FOR
	-----------------
	
	         subroutine test_hollerith()
	         call test(8HBig Test)
	         end
	
	Sample Code C.FOR
	-----------------
	
	         subroutine test(x)
	         real*8 x
	         write(*,"(' Test Hollerith: ',A8)") x
	         end
	
	Sample Code D.FOR
	-----------------
	
	         subroutine test(c)
	         character*8 c
	         write(*,"(' Test Quoted: ',A8)") c
	         end
	
	Additional query words: kbinf 1.00 4.00
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kberrmsg 
	Technology        : kbAudDeveloper kbFortranSearch kbZNotKeyword2 kbZNotKeyword3 kbFORTRANPower32100NT kbFORTRANPower32400NT kbFORTRANPower100DOS kbFORTRANPower100aDOS
	Version           : :1.0,1.0a,4.0
	
	=============================================================================
	
