---
layout: page
title: "Q135109: HOWTO: Use Updatable Joins in an MFC ODBC Application"
permalink: kb/135/Q135109/
---

## Q135109: HOWTO: Use Updatable Joins in an MFC ODBC Application

	Article: Q135109
	Product(s): Microsoft C Compiler
	Version(s): 1.51,1.52,2.0,2.1,2.2,4.0,4.1,4.2
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbProgramming kbDatabase kbMFC kbODBC kbVC
	Last Modified: 18-FEB-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- The Microsoft Foundation Classes (MFC), included with:
	   - Microsoft Visual C++ for Windows, 16-bit edition, versions 1.51, 1.52 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Editions, versions 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 4.0, 4.1 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Enterprise Edition, version 4.2 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Professional Edition, version 4.2 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	One way to use updatable joins with MFC ODBC applications utilizing the
	Microsoft Desktop ODBC Drivers is to use dynaset recordsets based on a
	predefined query stored in the database. In order to use this approach, your
	application must do all of the following:
	
	- Use unique indexes on the primary key and all matching foreign key columns in
	  all tables in the join.
	
	
	- Create a predefined query (a.k.a. stored procedure) which performs the join
	  and returns all fields you will reference in your application.
	
	- Use dynasets in your MFC application. VC++ 2.x directly supports the use of
	  dynasets.
	
	- If you open the predefined query using the "{CALL QueryName}" syntax you must
	  force the CRecordset-derived class members m_bUpdatable and m_bAppendable
	  TRUE to enable updatability.
	
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Background
	----------
	
	A join links records from multiple tables matching one or more key fields in each
	table to create a "view." When a join is updated, the fields in the view and the
	corresponding fields in the tables are modified.
	
	Generally, a join is performed with a SQL statement of this nature:
	
	  SELECT Table1.colA, Table2.colB
	  FROM Table1, Table2
	  WHERE Table1.primary_key=Table2.foreign_key
	
	You can specify such SQL in your recordset's SELECT statement, but the resulting
	join will not be updatable for reasons to be discussed.
	
	When are joins not updatable?
	-----------------------------
	
	The Microsoft desktop ODBC drivers do not support updatable joins of the form
	just described in the following two cases:
	
	- Using snapshots.
	- Executing a SQL SELECT statement with multiple tables
	
	Using snapshots forces joins non-updatable. MFC snapshots by default loads the
	cursor library (see appendix G of the ODBC 2.0 Programmer's Reference for more
	information about the cursor library) which doesn't support updatable joins. The
	alternative to using snapshots is to use dynasets which require you to
	explicitly inhibit the loading of the cursor library.
	
	If you attempt to use snapshots with joins, you will first encounter the fact
	that MFC will mark the recordset read only. Even if you set m_bUpdatable and
	m_bAppendable members of CRecordset TRUE yourself, you will receive the
	following error:
	
	In VC++ 1.5x:
	
	  Positioned request cannot be performed because result set was
	  generated by a join condition
	  State:SL002[Microsoft][ODBC Cursor Library]
	
	In VC++ 2.x:
	
	  Positioned request cannot be performed because result set was
	  generated by a join condition
	  State:SL002,Native:0,Origin:[Microsoft][ODBC Cursor Library]
	
	The Microsoft Desktop Drivers are unable to process SQLSetPos updates on a
	recordset opened using a join in its select statement. This means that a dynaset
	won't allow updatable joins unless you use a predefined query as mentioned
	above. If the SELECT statement contains a join, the driver will reject attempts
	to perform updates. This is a limitation of the drivers.
	
	If you specify a join in the SQL SELECT statement of your recordset Open() call
	or in the GetDefaultSQL() call and are using dynasets, you will receive the
	following error:
	
	In VC++ 1.5x:
	
	  Warning: multi-table recordset not updatable
	  Warning: ODBC Success With Info, Error in row
	  State:01S01[Microsoft][ODBC Microsoft Access 2.0 Driver]
	  Can't update. Database or object is read-only.
	  State:42000[Microsoft][ODBC Microsoft Access 2.0 Driver]
	
	In VC++ 2.x:
	
	  Error: failure updating record.
	  Can't update. Database or object is read-only.
	  State:42000,Native:-1809,Origin:[Microsoft]
	  [ODBC Microsoft Access 2.0 Driver]
	
	How to perform a join that will be updatable
	--------------------------------------------
	
	To perform updatable joins based on a predefined query, you must meet the
	criteria laid out in the summary section of this article. Additional information
	about using predefined queries in MFC ODBC applications is provided below.
	
	When using a predefined query in MFC employing dynasets you can utilize two
	methods of opening the recordset:
	
	- Use the "{CALL predefined_query}" syntax in the recordset open to explicitly
	  execute a predefined query and use its result set in the recordset.
	
	  For example:
	
	       m_pSet->Open(CRecordset::dynaset, "{CALL QueryName}");
	
	  Note: If you use the "CALL" syntax, you must force m_bUpdatable and
	  m_bAppendable member variables of your recordset class to TRUE since they
	  will be FALSE by default since predefined queries are assumed read-only. Do
	  this in a member function of your CRecordset-derived class since these are
	  protected members.
	
	- Open the view that a predefined query creates just as if it were a regular
	  table in the database.
	
	  For example:
	
	       m_pSet->Open(CRecordset::dynaset);
	
	  where the GetDefaultSQL() member of your recordset derived class is:
	  {return("QueryName");}
	
	  Note: When using predefined queries, regardless of how you open the recordset,
	  you refer to the tables specified in the query, not to the query itself, in
	  your RFX functions.
	
	  For example, if Table1 is a table referenced in predefined query QueryName, a
	  representative RFX function would be:
	
	              RFX_Text(pFX, "Table1.primary_key", m_member);
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	In the "MFC Encyclopedia" which came with Visual C++, there is an article titled
	"Recordset: Declaring a Class for a Predefined Query"
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbProgramming kbDatabase kbMFC kbODBC kbVC 
	Technology        : kbAudDeveloper kbMFC
	Version           : :1.51,1.52,2.0,2.1,2.2,4.0,4.1,4.2
	Issue type        : kbhowto
	
	=============================================================================
	
