---
layout: page
title: "Q108700: ODIHLP.EXE Load Error Messages"
permalink: kb/108/Q108700/
---

## Q108700: ODIHLP.EXE Load Error Messages

	Article: Q108700
	Product(s): Microsoft Windows 3.x Retail Product
	Version(s): WINDOWS:3.11
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 24-SEP-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Windows for Workgroups version 3.11 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	This article lists error messages generated by ODIHLP.EXE when it is loaded out
	of sequence.
	
	- The ODIHLP.EXE may produce the following error message if it is loaded before
	  the link support layer (LSL.COM):
	
	  ERROR: cannot load LSL
	  ODI/NDIS3 Mapper: Initialization failure
	  Press any key to continue
	
	- The ODIHLP.EXE file may produce the following error message if it is loaded
	  after LSL.COM and before the multiple link interface driver (MLID):
	
	  ERROR: not bound to any boards
	  ODI/NDIS3 Mapper: Initialization failure
	  Press any key to continue
	
	In both the above scenarios, when you start Windows for Workgroups 3.11, a
	text-based and a Windows-based error message appear:
	
	The following text-based error message appears when the SYSTEM.INI file is read:
	
	  ERROR: MSODISUP failed to load.
	  ODIHLP.EXE must be loaded before starting Windows,
	  ODIHLP.EXE should be loaded in AUTOEXEC.BAT after LSL.COM
	  Cannot load a device that is specified in SYSTEM.INI.
	
	  The performance of Windows should not be affected without this file.
	  C:\WINDOWS\SYSTEM\MSODISUP.386
	  Press a key to continue
	
	The Windows-based STOP error message that appears is:
	
	  Networking functionality will not be available. Your network adapter or
	  protocols may not be configured properly. Run Network Setup to check adapter
	  and protocol settings.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	To avoid these errors, ODIHLP.EXE must be loaded after LSL.COM and the MLID.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	ODIHLP.EXE is the real-mode component that allows LSL to complete its binding
	process in real mode (similar to NDISHLP.SYS). This file hooks all the real-mode
	entry points so that MSODISUP.386 can use this information when working in
	protected mode.
	
	ODIHLP.EXE acts as a default stack for all frame types (that is, ODIHLP accepts
	any packet that is of one of the frame types listed in the NET.CFG file.
	
	Additional query words: 3.11
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbAudDeveloper kbWFWSearch kbWFW311
	Version           : WINDOWS:3.11
	
	=============================================================================
	
