---
layout: page
title: "Q122181: Systems Management Server Event Log Codes 350 Through 400"
permalink: /kb/122/Q122181/
---

## Q122181: Systems Management Server Event Log Codes 350 Through 400

{% raw %}

	Article: Q122181
	Product(s): Microsoft Systems Management Server
	Version(s): 1.0,1.1,1.2
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbDatabase kbHMan smsdatabase smshierman
	Last Modified: 05-FEB-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Systems Management Server versions 1.0, 1.1, 1.2 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	This article details Systems Management Server event log codes 350 through
	400.
	
	Event Log Codes 350 - 400
	-------------------------
	
	Code   Description
	----   -----------
	
	350    New site installation initiated for site X.
	
	351    Could not create send request to install site X.
	
	352    Could not create Site Reconfiguration Minijob for site X.
	
	353    Site reconfiguration for site X initiated.
	
	354    Local site reconfiguration initiated.
	
	355    Remote site reconfiguration job for site X failed due to problems
	      creating the minijob.
	
	356    Site Hierarchy Manager is not functional. Unable to make connection
	      to SQL Server .
	
	357    Unable to obtain status for Job X for site Y.
	
	358    Received an ACTUAL site control file from site X.
	
	359    Preinstall job for site X has failed.
	
	360    Site Install Job for site X has failed.
	
	361    Site reconfig job for site X has failed.
	
	362    Creation of Minijob to parent site  from site  is failing.
	
	363    Sites table is empty. Cannot do any processing.
	
	364    Forwarding site control file(s) to parent site X.
	
	365    Cannot post site control files to parent site X.
	
	366    Cannot identify this site. No site code is in registry.
	
	367    Attempt to add site X to the Sites table in the database failed.
	
	368    Attempt to add domain X for Site Y to Domains table in database has
	      failed.
	
	369    SQL Server Errors =>
	
	370    X is not setup correctly.
	
	371    Unable to create MAC volume X on server Y with path Z.
	
	372    There is not enough free disk space on share A, server B. Available
	      diskspace is C MBytes, the package requires D bytes.
	
	373    There is no NTFS drive on server X, which is needed to decompress or
	      copy the package.
	
	374    The workstation install job has failed on workstation X in domain Y,
	      the description generated by the setup script is Z.
	
	375    The package file is corrupted. It either has a bad internal format
	      or failed CRC check. Have the administrator resend the package to
	      correct this problem.
	
	376    X caused an exception. Shutting down the SMS Executive.
	
	377    Site X is attempting to produce an illegal site hierarchy.
	
	378    Failed to install SMS_BOOTSTRAP service at the secondary site.
	      Possible causes are the service account doesn't have the proper
	      rights, the install drive doesn't exist or the server platform is
	      incorrect.
	
	379    The SMS root directory X on server Y cannot be an existing directory
	      that is not empty. Either delete the directory by hand or choose a
	      different directory and redo the secondary site install.
	
	380    An SMS alert has been triggered. Alert:  (X) -- . The hit count for
	      the alert was Y.
	
	381    Installation or upgrade of site X has failed. The main site package
	      (BOOTSTRP.PK1) and/or the site control package (BOOTSTRP.PK2) have
	      disappeared from that site's installation directory, where they had
	      been previously stored. Installation or upgrade cannot continue. If
	      this was an upgrade, SMS_BOOTSTRAP has triggered a restart of the
	      secondary site, attempting to restart the previous version of SMS.
	      If this succeeds, it should be possible to retry the upgrade using
	      SMS Setup to upgrade the primary site again.
	
	382    Installation or upgrade of site X has failed. The main site package
	      (BOOTSTRP.PK1) is invalid, failing internal consistency checks.
	      Installation or upgrade cannot continue. If this was an upgrade,
	      SMS_BOOTSTRAP has triggered a restart of the secondary site,
	      attempting to restart the previous version of SMS. If this succeeds,
	      it should be possible to retry the upgrade using SMS Setup to
	      upgrade the primary site again. Possible causes are: a transmission
	      error during sending.
	
	383    Installation or upgrade of site X has failed. The site control
	      package (BOOTSTRP.PK2) is invalid, failing internal consistency
	      checks. Installation or upgrade cannot continue. If this was an
	      upgrade, SMS_BOOTSTRAP has triggered a restart of the secondary
	      site, attempting to restart the previous version of SMS. If this
	      succeeds, it should be possible to retry the upgrade using SMS Setup
	      to upgrade the primary site again. Possible causes are: a
	      transmission error during sending.
	
	384    Installation or upgrade of site X has failed. SMS_BOOTSTRAP detected
	      insufficient disk space to decompress the main site package
	      (BOOTSTRP.PK1) or the site control package (BOOTSTRP.PK2).
	      Installation or upgrade cannot continue. If this was an upgrade,
	      SMS_BOOTSTRAP has triggered a restart of the secondary site,
	      attempting to restart the previous version of SMS. If this
	      succeeds, it should be possible to retry the upgrade using SMS Setup
	      to upgrade the primary site again. Possible causes are: low disk
	      space on the secondary site server.
	
	385    Installation or upgrade of site X has failed. The main site package
	      has failed during decompression. Installation or upgrade cannot
	      continue. If this was an upgrade, the secondary site may now contain
	      a mixture of files from the previous and new versions and should be
	      considered unstable. SMS_BOOTSTRAP has triggered a restart of the
	      secondary site, attempting to start the "mixed" version of SMS. If
	      this succeeds, it should be possible to retry the upgrade using SMS
	      Setup to upgrade the primary site again.
	
	386    Installation or upgrade of site X has failed. The site control
	      package has failed during decompression. Installation or upgrade
	      cannot continue. If this is an upgrade, SMS_BOOTSTRAP has triggered
	      a restart of the secondary site, attempting to start the new version
	      of SMS using the old site control file. If this succeeds, it should
	      be possible to retry the upgrade using SMS Setup to upgrade the
	      primary site again.
	
	387    Installation or upgrade of site X has failed. After it was
	      decompressed, the main site package did not included a master system
	      map (SYSTEM.MAP). This file should have been in the install
	      directory. Installation or upgrade cannot continue. If this is an
	      upgrade, SMS_BOOTSTRAP has triggered a restart of the secondary
	      site, attempting to start the new version of SMS without the system
	      map. If this succeeds, it should be possible to retry the upgrade
	      using SMS Setup to upgrade the primary site again.
	
	388    Installation or upgrade of site  has failed. SMS_BOOTSTRAP has run
	      for more than 48 hours at the secondary site without the site
	      successfully starting. Installation or upgrade will not continue.
	      If this was an upgrade, SMS_BOOTSTRAP has triggered a restart of the
	      secondary site, attempting to restart the previous version of SMS.
	      If this succeeds, it should be possible to retry the upgrade using
	      SMS Setup to upgrade the primary site again.
	
	389    Cannot enumerate users for domain (X). Possible NT error: (Y)
	
	390    Cannot enumerate user groups for domain (X). If this is a NetWare
	      domain, this may be due to the Gateway Service for NetWare not
	      running on the SMS site server. Possible NT error: (Y)
	
	391    The package includes Macintosh as one its supported platforms.
	      However none of the package servers are able to support Macintosh
	      packages. Please make sure Service for Macintosh is running on at
	      least one of the package servers.
	
	392    Drive X on server Y is not an NTFS drive, which is required for a
	      successful secondary site install. Please select an NTFS drive and
	      retry the secondary site install.
	
	393    Failed to decompress the package on server X, the required space is
	      MBytes, the drive with most free space only has Y MBytes free.
	
	Additional query words: sms prodsms 1.0 1.1 1.2
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbDatabase kbHMan smsdatabase smshierman 
	Technology        : kbSMSSearch kbSMS100 kbSMS110 kbSMS120
	Version           : :1.0,1.1,1.2
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
