---
layout: page
title: "Q122321: Administrative Alerts Generated by Windows NT Server"
permalink: /kb/122/Q122321/
---

## Q122321: Administrative Alerts Generated by Windows NT Server

{% raw %}

	Article: Q122321
	Product(s): Microsoft Windows NT
	Version(s): WinNT:3.50
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 08-AUG-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Windows NT Server version 3.5 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	This article lists the Internal Administrative Alerts messages, its threshold
	values, and the explanations that the Windows NT Server version 3.5 generates
	when there are problems with the Server and the network. These are different
	alerts that are set from the Performance Monitor or logged in Event Viewer. To
	add computers to receive these alerts, go to the Control Panel, choose the
	Server icon and select Alerts.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The following are the Internal Administrative Alerts messages, the threshold
	values, and the description of each Alerts message:
	
	- Drive %1 is nearly full. %2 bytes are available. Please warn users and delete
	  unneeded files.
	
	- %1 errors were logged in the last %2 minutes. Please review the server's
	  error log.
	
	- %1 network errors occurred in the last %2 minutes. Please review the server's
	  error log. The server and/or network hardware may need service.
	
	- There were %1 bad password attempts in the last %2 minutes. Please review the
	  server's audit trail.
	
	- There were %1 access-denied errors in the last %2 minutes. Please review the
	  server's audit trail.
	
	- The error log is full. No errors will be logged until the file is cleared or
	  the limit is raised.
	
	- The error log is 80% full.
	
	- The audit log is full. No audit entries will be logged until the file is
	  cleared or the limit is raised.
	
	- The audit log is 80% full.
	
	- An error occurred closing file %1. Please check the file to make sure it is
	  not corrupted.
	
	- The administrator has closed %1.
	
	- There were %1 access-denied errors in the last %2 minutes.
	
	- A power failure was detected at %1. The server has been paused.
	
	- Power has been restored at %1. The server is no longer paused.
	
	- The UPS service is starting shut down at %1 due to low battery.
	
	- There is a problem with a configuration of user specified shut down command
	  file. The UPS service started anyway.
	
	- A defective sector on drive %1 has been replaced (hotfixed). No data was
	  lost. You should run CHKDSK soon to restore full performance and replenish
	  the volume's spare sector pool. The hotfix occurred while processing a remote
	  request.
	
	- A disk error occurred on the HPFS volume in drive %1. The error occurred
	  while processing a remote request.
	
	- The user accounts database (NET.ACC) is corrupted. The local Security system
	  is replacing the corrupted NET.ACC with the backup made on %1 at %2. Any
	  updates made to the database after this time are lost.
	
	- The user accounts database (NET.ACC) is missing. The local security system is
	  restoring the backup database made on %1 at %2. Any updates made to the
	  database after this time are lost.
	
	- Local security could not be started because the user accounts database
	  (NET.ACC) was missing or corrupted, and no usable backup database was
	  present. THE SYSTEM IS NOT SECURE.
	
	- The server cannot export directory %1, to client %2. It is exported from
	  another server.
	
	- The replication server could not update directory %2 from the source on %3
	  due to error %1.
	
	- Master %1 did not send an update notice for directory %2 at the expected
	  time.
	
	- User %1 has exceeded account limitation %2 on server %3.
	
	- The primary domain controller for domain %1 failed.
	
	- Failed to authenticate with %2, a Windows NT Domain Controller for domain %1.
	
	- The replicator attempted to log on at %2 as %1 and failed.
	
	- @I *LOGON HOURS %0
	
	- Replicator could not access %2 on %3 due to system error %1.
	
	- Replicator limit for files in a directory has been exceeded.
	
	- Replicator limit for tree depth has been exceeded.
	
	- The replicator cannot update directory %1. It has tree integrity and is the
	  current directory for some process.
	
	- Network error %1 occurred.
	
	- System error %1 occurred.
	
	- Cannot log on. User is currently logged on and argument TRYUSER is set to NO.
	
	- IMPORT path %1 cannot be found.
	
	- EXPORT path %1 cannot be found.
	
	- Replicated data has changed in directory %1.
	
	- Replicator failed to update signal file in directory %2 due to %1 system
	  error.
	
	- The update log on %1 is over 80% capacity. The primary domain controller %2
	  is not retrieving the updates.
	
	- The update log on %1 is full, and no further updates can be added until the
	  primary domain controller %2 retrieves the updates.
	
	- The time difference with the primary domain controller %1 exceeds the maximum
	  allowed skew of %2 seconds.
	
	- The account of user %1 has been locked out on %2 due to %3 bad password
	  attempts.
	
	- The %1 log file cannot be opened.
	
	- The %1 log file is corrupted and will be cleared.
	
	- The Application log file could not be opened. %1 will be used as the default
	  log file.
	
	- The %1 log file is full.
	
	- The security database full synchronization has been initiated by the server
	  %1.
	
	- Windows NT could not be started as configured.
	  A previous working configuration was used instead.
	
	- The exception 0x%1 occurred in the application %2 at location 0x%3.
	
	- The servers %1 and %3 both claim to be an NT Domain Controller for the %2
	  domain. One of the servers should be removed from the domain because the
	  servers have different security identifiers (SID).
	
	- The server %1 and %2 both claim to be the primary domain controller for the
	  %3 domain. One of the servers should be demoted or removed from the domain.
	
	- The computer %1 tried to connect to the server %2 using the trust
	  relationship established by the %3 domain. However, the computer lost the
	  correct security identifier (SID) when the domain was reconfigured.
	  Reestablish the trust relationship.
	
	- The computer has rebooted from a bugcheck. The bugcheck was:
	  %1.
	  %2
	  A full dump was not saved.
	
	- The computer has rebooted from a bugcheck. The bugcheck was:
	  %1.
	  %2
	  A dump was saved in: %3.
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbWinNTsearch kbWinNT350search kbWinNTSsearch kbWinNTS350 kbWinNTS350search
	Version           : WinNT:3.50
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
