---
layout: page
title: "Q165259: INFO: Active Template Library (ATL) 2.0 Readme File"
permalink: /kb/165/Q165259/
---

## Q165259: INFO: Active Template Library (ATL) 2.0 Readme File

	Article: Q165259
	Product(s): Microsoft C Compiler
	Version(s): 2.0,3.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbprogramming kbnokeyword kbATL200 kbGrpDSMFCATL
	Last Modified: 26-JUN-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- The Microsoft Active Template Library (ATL), versions 2.0, 3.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	The following information is taken from the February 14, 1997 Readme file of the
	Active Template Library (ATL) version 2.0.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Active Template Library 2.0 Readme
	----------------------------------
	
	ATL 2.0 requires Oleaut32.dll version 2.20.4049, or later, which is
	shipped with Windows NT 4.0 and Internet Explorer 3.0. ATL 2.0 also
	requires the Visual C++ 4.2b patch.
	
	Building ATL Projects from the Command Line Can Generate NMAKE Error
	--------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	Building an ATL project from the command line can generate NMAKE error
	U1073. (This problem does not occur when building ATL samples from within
	the integrated development environment.)
	
	For example, the following command line:
	
	  nmake /f beeper.mak CFG="beeper - Win32 Release"
	
	generates this error:
	
	  NMAKE : fatal error U1073: don't know how to make '".\beeper.h"'
	
	From the command line, ATL projects require two passes to build. The first
	pass directs MIDL to create a header file that is required for the second
	pass.
	
	To work around this problem, use the following commands:
	
	  nmake /f beeper.mak CFG="beeper - Win32 Release" beeper.h
	  nmake /f beeper.mak CFG="beeper - Win32 Release"
	
	_ATL_MIN_CRT and Link Error "unresolved external symbol _main"
	--------------------------------------------------------------
	
	When you build a Release version of an ATL project, you can get the
	following link error:
	
	  LIBCMT.LIB(crt0.obj) : error LNK2001: unresolved external symbol _main
	
	This error occurs if you are using CRT functions that require CRT startup
	code. The Release configurations define _ATL_MIN_CRT, which excludes CRT
	startup code from your EXE or DLL. To avoid this error, do one of the
	following:
	
	- Remove _ATL_MIN_CRT from the list of preprocessor defines to allow CRT
	  startup code to be included. On the Build menu, click Settings. Hold
	  the ctrl key while selecting all Release configurations. On the C/C++
	  tab, choose the General category, then remove _ATL_MIN_CRT from the
	  preprocessor definitions edit box.
	
	- If possible, remove calls to CRT functions that require CRT startup
	  code. Instead, use their Win32 equivalents. For example, use lstrcmp()
	  instead of strcmp(). Known functions that require CRT startup code are
	  some of the string and floating point functions.
	
	Service EXE Created with ATL COM AppWizard Doesn't Build in Release Mode
	------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	In the ATL COM AppWizard, if you choose Service (EXE) as the server type,
	your project will not build in release mode. Builds in release mode
	automatically include the preprocessor directive _ATL_MIN_CRT, while the
	default ATL service code requires the CRT library. To avoid this error, do
	one of the following:
	
	- Remove _ATL_MIN_CRT from the list of preprocessor defines to allow CRT
	  startup code to be included. On the Build menu, click Settings. Hold
	  the ctrl key while selecting all Release configurations. On the C/C++
	  tab, choose the General category, then remove _ATL_MIN_CRT from the
	  Preprocessor definitions edit box.
	
	- Remove calls to CRT functions within the generated
	  ServiceModule::LogEvent function.
	
	ATL Controls in Visual Basic 5.0 Containers
	-------------------------------------------
	
	If you are using the IQuickActivate interface in Visual Basic 5.0, you
	must also support the connection point IPropertyNotifySink. To use a
	control generated by the ATL Object Wizard in a Visual Basic 5.0
	container, you must either add support for IPropertyNotifySink or remove
	the dependence on the IQuickActivate interface. To remove IQuickActivate
	support, comment out the lines containing IQuickActivateImpl in the
	control's class inheritance list and in the COM interface map. For
	example, if you generate a full control called MyCtl with the ATL Object
	Wizard, then go to MyCtl.h and comment out the line containing
	IQuickActivateImpl in the CMyCtl class inheritance list:
	
	  class ATL_NO_VTABLE CMyCtl :
	  ...
	
	  // public IQuickActivateImpl<CMyCtl>
	
	Also, comment out the line containing IQuickActivateImpl in the COM
	interface map in MyCtl.h:
	
	  BEGIN_COM_MAP(CMyCtl)
	  ...
	
	  // COM_INTERFACE_ENTRY_IMPL(IQuickActivate)
	
	Some ATL Object Stock Properties Must Be Initialized
	----------------------------------------------------
	
	Before Use in Visual Basic 5.0 Containers, Visual Basic 5.0 expects all
	stock properties that are IUnknown-based (such as MousePointer, Picture,
	and Font) to contain a valid IUnknown pointer. Otherwise, Visual Basic
	never allows the user to change the property. For example, if you have a
	stock Font property that you never fill in with a valid Font, Visual Basic
	will display the Font as being NULL, and will never allow the user to
	select a new Font through the Visual Basic property window.
	
	To avoid this problem, make sure your IUnknown-based stock properties have
	a valid value other than NULL before inserting your object into a Visual
	Basic container. There are many ways to do this, for example, get the
	ambient Font off the container and use that as your stock Font property.
	
	ATL Registrar Fails to Insert Keys Starting with Curly Brace
	------------------------------------------------------------
	
	The ATL registrar does not correctly interpret two consecutive key names
	that both start with a curly brace '{'. For example, the second
	"Implemented Categories" key name fails in the following registry script
	(rgs):
	
	  HKCR
	
	  {
	     NoRemove CLSID
	     {
	       ForceRemove {333C7BC4-460F-11D0-BC04-0080C7055A83} = s 'Tabular
	       Data Control'
	       {
	          'Implemented Categories'
	          {
	            '{7DD95801-9882-11CF-9FA9-00AA006C42C4}'
	            '{7DD95802-9882-11CF-9FA9-00AA006C42C4}'
	          }
	       }
	     }
	  }
	
	To correct the problem, break out each key name as shown in this example:
	
	  HKCR
	  {
	     NoRemove CLSID
	     {
	       ForceRemove {333C7BC4-460F-11D0-BC04-0080C7055A83} = s 'Tabular
	       Data Control'
	
	     {
	       'Implemented Categories'
	       {
	         '{7DD95801-9882-11CF-9FA9-00AA006C42C4}'
	       }
	       'Implemented Categories'
	       {
	         '{7DD95802-9882-11CF-9FA9-00AA006C42C4}'
	       }
	     }
	    }
	  }
	
	IPropertyPageImpl::Help is Implemented Incorrectly
	--------------------------------------------------
	
	In most cases, if you are using property pages, you should override
	IPropertyPage::Help and return E_NOTIMPL. This will cause the container to
	use information returned from GetPageInfo. You can also provide your own
	alternative implementation of this function if necessary.
	
	ATL Font and Picture Properties May Require Changes to the IDL File
	-------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	To make a Font or Picture property work in some containers, the interface
	definition must be declared within the library section of the .idl file.
	You must cut the interface declarations from the .idl file and paste them
	into the library section of the same file. In addition, the import line
	for ocidl.idl needs to be commented out. For example, the ATL Object
	Wizard generates the following .idl file for MyCtl with a Font property:
	
	  import "oaidl.idl";
	  import "ocidl.idl";
	
	  [
	     object,
	     uuid(8697BC4C-7A38-11D0-9A38-00A0C90DC94B),
	     dual,
	     helpstring("IMyCtl Interface"),
	     pointer_default(unique)
	  ]
	
	  interface IMyCtl : IDispatch
	  {
	     [propputref, id(DISPID_FONT)]
	     HRESULT Font([in]IFontDisp* pFont);
	     [propput, id(DISPID_FONT)]
	     HRESULT Font([in]IFontDisp* pFont);
	     [propget, id(DISPID_FONT)]
	     HRESULT Font([out, retval]IFontDisp** ppFont);
	  };
	
	  [
	     uuid(8697BC3F-7A38-11D0-9A38-00A0C90DC94B),
	     version(1.0),
	     helpstring("MyControl 1.0 Type Library")
	  ]
	
	  library MYCONTROLLib
	  {
	     importlib("stdole32.tlb");
	     importlib("stdole2.tlb");
	     [
	     uuid(8697BC4D-7A38-11D0-9A38-00A0C90DC94B),
	     helpstring("MyCtl Class")
	     ]
	
	     coclass MyCtl
	     {
	        [default] interface IMyCtl;
	     };
	  };
	
	The corrected version of this .idl file is shown below:
	
	  import "oaidl.idl";
	  // import "ocidl.idl";
	  [
	     uuid(8697BC3F-7A38-11D0-9A38-00A0C90DC94B),
	     version(1.0),
	     helpstring("MyControl 1.0 Type Library")
	  ]
	
	  library MYCONTROLLib
	  {
	     importlib("stdole32.tlb");
	     importlib("stdole2.tlb");
	     [
	        object,
	        uuid(8697BC4C-7A38-11D0-9A38-00A0C90DC94B),
	        dual,
	        helpstring("IMyCtl Interface"),
	        pointer_default(unique)
	     ]
	
	     interface IMyCtl : IDispatch
	     {
	        [propputref, id(DISPID_FONT)]
	        HRESULT Font([in]IFontDisp* pFont);
	        [propput, id(DISPID_FONT)]
	        HRESULT Font([in]IFontDisp* pFont);
	        [propget, id(DISPID_FONT)]
	        HRESULT Font([out, retval]IFontDisp** ppFont);
	     };
	     [
	        uuid(8697BC4D-7A38-11D0-9A38-00A0C90DC94B),
	        helpstring("MyCtl Class")
	     ]
	
	     coclass MyCtl
	     {
	        [default] interface IMyCtl;
	     };
	  };
	
	Changes to Stock Property Macros
	--------------------------------
	
	The documentation incorrectly references the macro
	IMPLEMENT_SMARTPTR_STOCKPROP. This macro is now obsolete. The macro
	IMPLEMENT_BOOL_STOCKPROP has been added and should be used for all stock
	properties that are Boolean values, such as the standard BORDERVISIBLE,
	ENABLED, TABSTOP, and VALID stock properties.
	
	Problems with ATL Samples
	-------------------------
	
	The samples ATLCON and ATLBUTTON have the following problems:
	
	- To successfully run ATLCON under a MinCRT configuration, you must
	  remove the WinMain entry point as follows:
	
	  1. Click Settings on the Build menu.
	  2. Under Settings For, choose one of the MinCRT configurations.
	  3. On the Link tab, choose the Output category.
	  4. Remove the text in the Entry-point symbol editbox.
	
	- ATLButton returns incorrect values for the properties ImageHover and
	  ImagePush. To correct the sample, change the file AtlButton.h so that
	  the function get_ImageHover uses m_bstrFileName[1].Copy() and change
	  get_ImagePush so that it uses m_bstrFileName[2].Copy().
	
	ATL Classes in ClassView
	------------------------
	
	To prevent the ATL classes from displaying in ClassView, modify (or
	create) the msvcincl.dat file, as follows:
	
	1. Using a text editor, open or create msvcincl.dat. This file must be
	  located in your Windows directory. Add a list of the ATL file names to
	  msvcincl.dat. For example:
	
	  atlbase.h
	  atlcom.h
	  atlctl.h
	  atlwin.h
	  ...
	
	  (For each name you add to msvcincl.dat, ClassView will exclude the
	  classes contained in that file.)
	
	2. Save msvcincl.dat in your Windows directory.
	
	3. Delete your project's .ncb file and restart Developer Studio.
	
	Organization of Documentation
	-----------------------------
	
	The documentation for ATL 2.0 consists of both .htm and .doc files. To
	navigate through the documentation in an online format, use the .htm files
	with your Web browser. The file start.htm provides a starting point.
	
	If you want to print the documentation, use the .doc files. The following
	table shows each ATL topic and its corresponding .doc file:
	
	  ATL Articles                           .doc File
	  ------------                           ---------
	
	  What's New in ATL 2.0                  d_new.doc
	  ATL Article Overview                   d_aover.doc
	  ATL Class Overview                     d_cover.doc
	  Introduction to COM and ATL            d_com.doc
	  ATL Tutorial                           d_tutor.doc
	  Creating an ATL Project                d_create.doc
	  Fundamentals of ATL COM Objects        d_fund.doc
	  ATL Window Classes                     d_win.doc
	  Connection Points                      d_connec.doc
	  Enumerators                            d_enums.doc
	  The Proxy Generator                    d_proxyg.doc
	  Debugging Tips for ATL Objects         d_debug.doc
	  ATL Services                           d_serv.doc
	  The ATL Registry Component             d_rgstry.doc
	
	  ATL Class Reference                    .doc File
	  -------------------                    ---------
	
	  CBindStatusCallback                    cbindsta.doc
	  CComAggObject                          ccagob.doc
	  CComApartment                          ccapart.doc
	  CComAutoCriticalSection                ccautocs.doc
	  CComAutoThreadModule                   ccautotm.doc
	  CComBSTR                               ccbstr.doc
	  CComCachedTearOffObject                cccachet.doc
	  CComClassFactory                       ccclfc.doc
	  CComClassFactory2                      ccclfc2.doc
	  CComClassFactoryAutoThread             ccclfca.doc
	  CComClassFactorySingleton              ccclfcs.doc
	  CComCoClass                            cccocls.doc
	  CComContainedObject                    cccontob.doc
	  CComControl                            cccontrl.doc
	  CComCriticalSection                    cccritsc.doc
	  CComDispatchDriver                     ccdispd.doc
	  CComDynamicUnkArray                    ccdynunk.doc
	  CComFakeCriticalSection                ccfakecs.doc
	  CComGlobalsThreadModel                 ccglbtm.doc
	  CComModule                             ccmod.doc
	  CComMultiThreadModel                   ccmtm.doc
	  CComMultiThreadModelNoCS               ccmtmncs.doc
	  CComObject                             ccob.doc
	  CComObjectGlobal                       ccobglb.doc
	  CComObjectNoLock                       ccobnlck.doc
	  CComObjectRoot                         ccobroot.doc
	  CComObjectRootEx                       ccobrtex.doc
	  CComObjectStack                        ccobstk.doc
	  CComObjectThreadModel                  ccobtm.doc
	  CComPolyObject                         ccpoly.doc
	  CComPtr                                ccptr.doc
	  CComQIPtr                              ccqiptr.doc
	  CComSimpleThreadAllocator              ccsmpthr.doc
	  CComSingleThreadModel                  ccsngtm.doc
	  CComTearOffObject                      cctob.doc
	  CComUnkArray                           ccunkar.doc
	  CComVariant                            ccvar.doc
	  CContainedWindow                       ccwind.doc
	  CDialogImpl                            cdialogi.doc
	  CDynamicChain                          cdynchn.doc
	  CFirePropNotifyEvent                   cfirepro.doc
	  CMessageMap                            cmessmap.doc
	  CRegKey                                cregky.doc
	  CStockPropImpl                         cstockpr.doc
	  CWindow                                cwind.doc
	  CWindowImpl                            cwindi.doc
	  CWndClassInfo                          cwndcls.doc
	  IConnectionPointContainerImpl          iconptc.doc
	  IConnectionPointImpl                   iconpti.doc
	  IDataObjectImpl                        idataob.doc
	  IDispatchImpl                          idisp.doc
	  IObjectSafetyImpl                      iobsafe.doc
	  IObjectWithSiteImpl                    iobwsite.doc
	  IOleControlImpl                        iolecont.doc
	  IOleInPlaceActiveObjectImpl            ioleipac.doc
	  IOleInPlaceObjectWindowlessImpl        ioleipow.doc
	  IOleObjectImpl                         ioleobj.doc
	  IPerPropertyBrowsingImpl               iperprbr.doc
	  IPersistPropertyBagImpl                iperspb.doc
	  IPersistStorageImpl                    iperstg.doc
	  IPersistStreamInitImpl                 iperstr.doc
	  IPointerInactiveImpl                   ipntinac.doc
	  IPropertyNotifySinkCP                  iprntfys.doc
	  IPropertyPageImpl                      iprpg.doc
	  IPropertyPage2Impl                     iprpg2.doc
	  IProvideClassInfo2Impl                 iprvci2.doc
	  IQuickActivateImpl                     iqkact.doc
	  IRunnableObjectImpl                    irunobj.doc
	  ISpecifyPropertyPagesImpl              ispecpp.doc
	  ISupportErrorInfoImpl                  isuperi.doc
	  IViewObjectExImpl                      iviewobj.doc
	
	  ATL Macros and Global Functions        macros.doc
	  -------------------------------        ----------
	
	  Obsolete ATL Topics                    obsolete.doc
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbprogramming kbnokeyword kbATL200 kbGrpDSMFCATL 
	Technology        : kbAudDeveloper kbATLsearch kbATL200 kbATL300
	Version           : :2.0,3.0
	Hardware          : x86
	Issue type        : kbinfo
	
	=============================================================================
	
