---
layout: page
title: "Q130057: Supporting Multiple Languages in a Single Application"
permalink: /kb/130/Q130057/
---

## Q130057: Supporting Multiple Languages in a Single Application

	Article: Q130057
	Product(s): Microsoft Windows Software Development Kit
	Version(s): WINDOWS:3.1
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 06-NOV-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Windows Software Development Kit (SDK) 3.1 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	It is not trivial to support multiple languages in a single Windows-based
	application. Unlike Windows NT, Windows has no built-in support for different
	language versions of a single resource.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The easiest way to do it and the way it is done for Windows itself and all our
	localized Windows-based applications, is to have separate executables for each
	language (English, German, French, and so on) version.
	
	However, it is possible to create a single executable that supports multiple
	language resources. For example, you could have a separate DLL containing the
	resources for different language versions of your application. You can link a
	specific version of DLL in runtime.
	
	The language selection should be an install-time option, because there is no
	official way to identify the host language. The application needs to ask the
	user to confirm what the application has found.
	
	All the messages and system errors generated by Windows, regardless of your
	resource files, will displayed as the local language error messages.
	
	If an application needs to have one resource file, the developer must create a
	unique resource ID for each language version of the resource, and then load the
	appropriate resource depending on the language. For example, the following
	string table could be created:
	
	     IDS_HELLO_ENGLISH, "Hello"
	     IDS_HELLO_GERMAN, "Hallo"
	
	The application would then either load the English string or the German string as
	required.
	
	There is no documentation on this subject because it is not a feature of Windows.
	There is a new book out that has a chapter on internationalizing applications.
	It is written in a friendly manner. Microsoft Windows 3.1 Developer's Workshop
	by Dr. John Butler; it's published by Microsoft Press. In addition, the
	Microsoft Developer Relations Group is currently revising "The International
	Handbook."
	
	Additional query words: 3.10 localization international foreign kbinf
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbAudDeveloper kbWin3xSearch kbSDKSearch kbWinSDKSearch kbWinSDK310
	Version           : WINDOWS:3.1
	
	=============================================================================
	
