---
layout: page
title: "Q112280: PC DirSync: Err Msg: Fatal Error 2 Opening File: MSTTRANS"
permalink: /kb/112/Q112280/
---

## Q112280: PC DirSync: Err Msg: Fatal Error 2 Opening File: MSTTRANS

	Article: Q112280
	Product(s): Microsoft Mail For PC Networks
	Version(s): WINDOWS:3.0,3.2,3.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 04-NOV-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Mail for PC Networks, versions 3.0, 3.2, 3.5 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	The following error may be reported in the DIRSYNC.LOG file for the server
	postoffice when you run directory synchronization (Dir-Sync):
	
	  Warning [ 2] Error opening file: MSTTRANS
	  Fatal [ 2] Error opening file: MSTTRANS
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	The MSTTRANS.GLB file is missing from the GLB directory on the Dir-Sync server
	postoffice.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	The best resolution is to restore the MSTTRANS.GLB file from a backup copy and
	have all requestor postoffices perform a Dir-Sync Export (by starting the Mail
	Administrator program [ADMIN.EXE], under Config, Dir-Sync Requestor, Export).
	
	If a backup copy of the postoffice is not available, the resolution depends on
	the version of Mail that is running:
	
	For Mail 3.0
	------------
	
	1. Create a new MSTTRANS.GLB file by using the following MS-DOS command from
	  within the GLB directory of the server postoffice:
	
	  type nul > msttrans.glb
	
	2. Turn off the Dir-Sync server from the Mail Administrator program (by
	  selecting Config, Dir-Sync, Options, No, Yes).
	
	3. Use the LISTDS utility to reset the REQCONF.GLB file on all the postoffices
	  participating in Dir-Sync. If this utility is not available, install a dummy
	  postoffice and copy the REQCONF.GLB file from the dummy postoffice to all the
	  GLB directories of all postoffices participating in Dir-Sync.
	
	4. Turn on the Dir-Sync server again from the Mail Administrator program (by
	  selecting Config, Dir-Sync, Options, Yes).
	
	5. Re-register all of the requestors with the Dir-Sync server by selecting
	  Config, Dir-Sync, Server, Requestors, Create, Networks, and selecting each
	  requestor you want to register with the Dir-Sync server.
	
	6. Select Config, Dir-Sync, Requestor, Export to export the server[ASCII 146]s
	  address list.
	
	7. Reconfigure all the requestors to go to the Dir-Sync server (by selecting
	  Config, Dir-Sync Requestor, Registration), and export the address list (by
	  selecting Config, Dir-Sync, Requestor, Export)
	
	For Mail 3.2 and 3.5
	--------------------
	
	1. Create a new MSTTRANS.GLB file by using the following MS-DOS command from
	  within the GLB directory of the server postoffice:
	
	  type nul > msttrans.glb
	
	2. Export all the address lists of all requestors from the Mail Administrator
	  program (by selecting Config, Dir-Sync, Requestor, Export.
	
	  NOTE: Errors 138 and 139 will be generated by Dir-Sync in the DIRSYNC.LOG file
	  for all the requestors; however, you can ignore these errors because as the
	  Export operation will cover any transactions lost due to the missing
	  MSTTRANS.GLB file.
	
	Additional query words: 3.00 3.20 3.50 dirsync dirsynch admin admin.exe
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbMailSearch kbZNotKeyword3 kbMailPCN320 kbMailPCN300 kbMailPCN350
	Version           : WINDOWS:3.0,3.2,3.5
	
	=============================================================================
	
