---
layout: page
title: "Q295040: SMS: How to Enable SQL Cache Logging in SMS Provider"
permalink: kb/295/Q295040/
---

## Q295040: SMS: How to Enable SQL Cache Logging in SMS Provider

	Article: Q295040
	Product(s): Microsoft Systems Management Server
	Version(s): 2.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbtool kbsms200
	Last Modified: 21-AUG-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Systems Management Server version 2.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	This article summarizes the steps that you can take to increase the level of
	logging when you troubleshoot the Systems Management Server (SMS) Provider. This
	can be particularly useful when you suspect performance degradation.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	To fine-tune logging levels, the SMS SQL Cache Logging Level can be adjusted.
	The resulting information is compared to the output of running the sp_who2
	stored procedure in the SQL Server Query Analyzer.
	
	Be aware that increasing the verbosity of logging generated by the SMS Provider
	may further contribute to any potential performance issues you are attempting to
	troubleshoot, because additional information will be produced in log files.
	
	To adjust the SMS SQL Cache Logging Level, follow these steps:
	
	1. Start Registry Editor (Regedt32.exe).
	
	2. Locate the SQL Cache Logging Level value under the following key in the
	  registry:
	
	  [ HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE \ Software \ Microsoft \ SMS \ Providers ]
	
	3. On the Edit menu, click DWORD, type 1 as the Data, and then click OK.
	
	4. Quit Registry Editor.
	
	5. Restart the SMS Provider. This can be done by stopping and restarting the
	  Windows Management Instrumentation service.
	
	Additionally, before you restart the SMS Provider, you may want to increase the
	size of the SMS Provider log file. For additional information about how to
	increase the size of the SMS Provider log file, click the article number below
	to view the article in the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q275742 SMS: How to Increase the Size of the SMS Provider Log File
	
	Additional information is placed in the "SMSPROV.LOG" log file, typically found
	at X:\SMS\Logs\ (where X:\ is the drive on which you have SMS installed). Also,
	another log file, named "SMSPROV_SQLCACHE_<24 hour time format>.LOG" is
	created in the same directory location.
	
	SMSPROV.LOG will contain enumerations of each of the SMS objects where security
	is applied. Each class is enumerated, but not its instances or properties. You
	may also note additional connection information in the log file.
	
	The file, SMSPROV_SQLCACHE_<24 hour time format>.LOG is produced as a
	tab-delimited file to identify which cached credentials the SMS Provider is
	using to communicate with the SMS database. Key items to note are the "Type,"
	the "Thread ID," and the "spid" columns.
	
	Compare this to the SQL Query analyzer (version 7.0 and higher), focused on the
	SMS database. Type "sp_who2" (without the quotation marks), and press <F5>
	to run the stored procedure. The output will appear in the bottom frame of the
	query analyzer. Compare the results with the SMSPROV_SQLCACHE_<24 hour time
	format>.LOG file to determine if there are any differences in number of
	"spid"'s, or in "TimeLastUsed." You may also find other useful information by
	matching "spid"'s with the object accessed.
	
	NOTE: Only open connections to the SMS database through the SMS Provider will be
	displayed, indicating cached credentials. All of the spid's listed from
	"sp_who2" should match those displayed by the SMS Provider SQL cache log file
	generated.
	
	If the number of cached connections is higher in either source, the SMS Provider
	or the SQL Server, then this could indicate problems with the number of allowed
	SMS Provider connections. For additional information, click the article number
	below to view the article in the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q267237 SMS: Upgrading to SP2 Resets Provider Connections to Default
	
	For additional information, click the article number below to view the article in
	the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q260372 SMS: Calculating SQL User Connections for SMS 2.0
	
	
	Additional query words: prodsms smsprov sqlcache
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbtool kbsms200 
	Technology        : kbSMSSearch kbSMS200
	Version           : :2.0
	Issue type        : kbinfo
	
	=============================================================================
	
