---
layout: page
title: "Q125995: Lanman BDC Synchronization Problems in Windows NT Domains"
permalink: kb/125/Q125995/
---

## Q125995: Lanman BDC Synchronization Problems in Windows NT Domains

	Article: Q125995
	Product(s): Windows for Workgroups and Windows NT Networking Issues
	Version(s): 2.1,2.1a,2.2x,3.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 08-AUG-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Windows NT Advanced Server 
	- Microsoft Windows NT Server version 3.5 
	- Microsoft LAN Manager, versions 2.1, 2.1a, 2.2x 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When a user accounts database on a LAN Manager backup domain controller (BDC)
	does not receive updates from the Windows NT domain controller, you encounter
	any one of the following problems:
	
	- You are unable to access shares on a LAN Manager Server. They receive an
	  Access Denied or Invalid Username Or Password error message.
	
	- Attempts by administrators to remotely administer LAN Manager Servers result
	  in "Access Denied" error messages.
	
	- The Windows NT Domain Controller Event Viewer reports "Full Synchronization
	  with the server \\LANMAN_Server failed."
	
	- The error log on the LAN Manager Server reports the error message "Full
	  Synchronization with the Primary Domain Controller \\NTAS failed."
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Use the troubleshooting steps to determine the cause of these errors:
	
	1. Determine if the Lan Manager BDC can access the Windows NT domain controller
	  using the "NET VIEW" or "NET USE" command. If it cannot, the network
	  connection has failed; troubleshoot the problem as a connectivity issue.
	
	2. Verify that the LAN Manager Server is actually configured as a BDC.
	
	3. Verify that the NETLOGON service is running on the LAN Manager BDC. If the
	  NETLOGON service is not running, run NET START NETLOGON at the command prompt
	  to start it. If an error message appears, run NET HELPMSG #### to get more
	  information on the the error message.
	
	4. Verify that the Windows NT Domain controller has a Servers user group. If it
	  does not, create one.
	
	5. Verify that the LAN Manager BDC machine account is a member of the Servers
	  group. If it is not, add the LAN Manager BDC machine account to the group.
	
	6. Verify that Windows NT Server Manager lists the LAN Manager BDC as a member
	  of the domain with a description of "Lan Manager Server." If it does not, add
	  a domain account for the LAN Manager BDC using the Computer menu Add To
	  Domain option.
	
	7. If the protocol in use is a routable protocol, verify that the there is some
	  provision for NetBIOS name resolution for the domain name. For example, on a
	  TCP/IP network, verify that the LMHOSTS file contains an entry similar to the
	  following
	
	     102.54.94.97     <domcontroller>     #PRE     #DOM:domainname
	
	  where <domcontroller> is the NetBIOS name of the Windows NT Domain
	  Controller.
	
	8. In the Windows NT Server Manager, select the LAN Manager BDC machine name and
	  then select Synchronize with Domain Controller from the Computer menu. After
	  the synchronization is complete, check the error log on the LAN Manager BDC
	  for messages generated by the NETLOGON service. You should see a report of
	  the outcome of the synchronization of the user account database. If the
	  NETLOGON service reports an error, note that error and any hex code
	  associated with it. The error will probably be Net3226, with one of a few
	  possible hex codes.
	
	9. Translate the hex code to decimal to get a net error message by inverting the
	  digits, then converting them to decimal. For example, EA00 becomes 00EA after
	  being inverted, and then 234 after being converted to decimal. Type NET
	  HELPMSG 234 at the command prompt to get an explanation of the error
	  message.
	
	  If the hex code is 05 00, the problem is Access Denied. The Windows NT domain
	  controller is unable to establish a connection with the BDC. To correct this
	  problem, follow the instructions in Knowledge Base article Q120930: How to
	  Re-sync a LAN Manager Server in a Windows NT Domain.
	
	  If the hex code is EA 00, the problem is "More Data is available." The Windows
	  NT Domain controller is attempting to send more data to the LAN Manager BDC
	  than the BDC is able to accommodate. This problem is most likely the result
	  of having too many groups defined in the domain. A LAN Manager can support no
	  more than 256 groups.
	
	  To troubleshoot any other hex codes associated with the Net3226 message, query
	  on Microsoft Knowledge Base article Q99255: Troubleshooting NET3226 Errors,
	  here in the Microsoft Knowledge Base.
	
	Additional query words: 3.10 2.20 2.1 2.1a 2.2 replication prodnt
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbWinNTsearch kbWinNT350search kbWinNTSsearch kbWinNTS350 kbWinNTAdvSerSearch kbWinNTS350search kbAudDeveloper kbLanManSearch kbLanMan210 kbLanMan210a kbLanMan220xSearch
	Version           : :2.1,2.1a,2.2x,3.5
	
	=============================================================================
	
