---
layout: page
title: "Q172155: BUG: Decimal Values Missing from Internet Search Wizard Results"
permalink: /kb/172/Q172155/
---

## Q172155: BUG: Decimal Values Missing from Internet Search Wizard Results

	Article: Q172155
	Product(s): Microsoft FoxPro
	Version(s): WINDOWS:5.0,5.0a
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 11-DEC-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual FoxPro for Windows, versions 5.0, 5.0a 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When using the Internet Search Wizard to query against numeric data in FoxPro
	tables, decimal places will be truncated in the results.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	In order for the decimal values to be displayed properly, the STR() function
	must be used in the SELECT statement in the IDC file. The IDC file may be edited
	in a text editor such as Notepad.
	
	For example, the following IDC file that was generated by the Internet Search
	Wizard has been modified to include the STR() function for numeric fields
	(Numfield1 and Numfield2):
	
	     Datasource:
	     Template: TEST.HTX
	     SQLStatement:
	     +SELECT  Field1, Field2, STR(Numfield1,10,2), STR(Numfield2,10,2)
	     + FROM 'TEST'
	     + WHERE ID = '%SearchParam%'
	     Maxrecords: 10
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a bug in the Microsoft products listed at the
	beginning of this article.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Steps to Reproduce Behavior
	---------------------------
	
	1. Follow the steps in the following Knowledge Base article to create an
	  Internet search page using the Internet Search Wizard. Use a table that
	  contains numeric fields.
	
	  Q165775 HOWTO: Setting up a Visual FoxPro Internet Server
	
	2. Access the search page from your Web browser.
	
	NOTE: The decimal values on the numeric fields are truncated.
	
	Additional query words: InetWiz
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbVFPsearch kbAudDeveloper kbVFP500 kbVFP500a
	Version           : WINDOWS:5.0,5.0a
	Issue type        : kbbug
	
	=============================================================================
	
