---
layout: page
title: "Q129939: PRB: Err.Raise Doesn't Always Generate Expected Error"
permalink: /kb/129/Q129939/
---

## Q129939: PRB: Err.Raise Doesn't Always Generate Expected Error

	Article: Q129939
	Product(s): Microsoft Visual Basic for Windows
	Version(s): 4.00
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 11-JAN-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Standard Edition, 32-bit, for Windows, version 4.0 
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Professional Edition, 16-bit, for Windows, version 4.0 
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Professional Edition, 32-bit, for Windows, version 4.0 
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Enterprise Edition, 16-bit, for Windows, version 4.0 
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Enterprise Edition, 32-bit, for Windows, version 4.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	Using Err.Raise to generate a specific run-time error may generate a
	"Application-defined or object-defined error" message rather than the expected
	text that corresponds to the error number.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	Err.Raise only fills in the Source, Description, HelpFile, and HelpContext
	properties of the Err object for Visual Basic for Applications errors. For other
	errors, it returns "Application-defined or object-defined error."
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	This behavior is by design.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Err.Raise is useful for generating errors when writing OLE Automation objects
	because the Err object gives the programmer and user more information than is
	possible if you generate errors with the Error statement.
	
	Whether or not to use Err.Raise in code that is not related to OLE Automation
	depends on if you want the additional information returned by using Err.Raise
	versus the Error statment. Err.Raise is most useful for providing the user with
	information on a user-defined error when writing code for an OLE Automation
	object; it provides the user with information on a user-defined error. Please
	see the Raise Method topic in the Visual Basic Help menu for an example on using
	Err.Raise with user-defined errors in an OLE Automation application.
	
	The following example demonstrates the information that can be obtained using
	Err.Raise such as the Source property, Description property, and other
	properties of the Err Object. In addition, it shows the differences in behavior
	of Error.Raise when raising Visual Basic for Applications errors versus
	non-Visual Basic for Application errors.
	
	Steps to Reproduce Behavior
	---------------------------
	
	1. Start a new project in Visual Basic. Form1 is created by default.
	
	2. Add the following code to the Form_Click event procedure:
	
	     Private Sub Form_Load()
	        On Error Resume Next
	        Err.Clear
	        Err.Raise 6
	        'Err.Raise 381
	        If Err.Number <> 0 Then
	           Msg = "Error # " & Str(Err.Number) & " was generated by " & _
	           Err.Source & Chr(13) & Err.Description
	
	           MsgBox Msg, , "Error", Err.HelpFile, Err.HelpContext
	        End If
	     End Sub
	
	3. Run the program. The error "Overflow" is correctly generated.
	
	4. Change the line containing "Err.Raise 6" into a comment, and uncomment the
	  line containing "Err.Raise 381".
	
	5. Run the program. Rather than the expected error "Invalid property array
	  index," the error "Application-defined or object-defined error" is generated.
	
	Visual Basic for Applications Errors
	------------------------------------
	
	The following is a list of Visual Basic for Applications errors. For a complete
	list of trappable errors, please search for the "Trappable errors" topic in the
	Help file.
	
	  3      Return without GoSub
	  5      Invalid procedure call
	  6      Overflow
	  7      Out of memory
	  9      Subscript out of range
	  10     Duplicate definition
	  11     Division by zero
	  12     Precision lost converting Variant
	  13     Type mismatch
	  14     Out of string space
	  16     String expression too complex
	  17     Can't perform requested operation
	  18     User interrupt occurred
	  20     Resume without error
	  28     Out of stack space
	  35     Sub or Function not defined
	  47     Too many DLL application clients
	  48     Error in loading DLL
	  49     Bad DLL calling convention
	  51     Internal error
	  52     Bad file name or number
	  53     File not found
	  54     Bad file mode
	  55     File already open
	  57     Device I/O error
	  58     File already exists
	  59     Bad record length
	  61     Disk full
	  62     Input past end of file
	  63     Bad record number
	  67     Too many files
	  68     Device unavailable
	  70     Permission denied
	  71     Disk not ready
	  74     Can't rename with different drive
	  75     Path/File access error
	  76     Path not found
	  91     Object variable not Set
	  92     For loop not initialized
	  93     Invalid pattern string
	  94     Invalid use of Null
	  423    Property or method not found
	  424    Object required
	  430    Class doesn't support OLE Automation
	  438    Object doesn't support this property or method
	  440    OLE Automation error
	  445    Object doesn't support this action
	  446    Object doesn't support named arguments
	  447    Object doesn't support current locale setting
	  448    Named argument not found
	  449    Argument not optional
	  450    Wrong number of arguments
	  451    Object not a collection
	  452    Invalid ordinal
	  453    Function not defined in specified DLL
	  454    Code resource not found
	  455    Code resource lock error
	  456    Get and Put cannot be used with arrays
	  457    Can't create object
	
	Additional query words: 4.00 vb4win vb4all
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbVBSearch kbAudDeveloper kbVB400Search kbVB400 kbVB16bitSearch
	Version           : 4.00
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	
