---
layout: page
title: "Q129646: FIX: Error Routine Not Called for USE Command"
permalink: /kb/129/Q129646/
---

## Q129646: FIX: Error Routine Not Called for USE Command

{% raw %}

	Article: Q129646
	Product(s): Microsoft FoxPro
	Version(s): WINDOWS:3.0,3.0b
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbvfp kbvfp300bBUG kbvfp500fixkbbuglist kbfixlist
	Last Modified: 24-MAR-2000
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual FoxPro for Windows, versions 3.0, 3.0b 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	Visual FoxPro will not trap for the error caused by trying to open a table that
	is part of a corrupted database.
	
	Usually, the "USE customer" command will open the table and the database that the
	table is part of. If the Database is corrupt, the following message is
	displayed:
	
	  
	
	  The database for table C:\..\CUSTOMER.DBF could not be opened. Would you
	  like to try to locate the owning database or delete the link (and free
	  the table). Locate   Delete    Cancel
	
	In a program with an error routine, the error routine is not called, and the
	above message is still displayed. Selecting Cancel ends the program.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	Do not open a table that is part of a database without first opening the
	database. Then you can trap for the error generated by trying to open a corrupt
	database.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a problem in the Microsoft products listed at
	the beginning of this article. This problem has been fixed in Visual FoxPro 5.0
	for Windows.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Steps to Reproduce Problem
	--------------------------
	
	Corrupt the TESTDATA database by opening it as a table and deleting the first
	record. Run the following program:
	
	     SET DEFAULT TO C:\VFP\SAMPLES\DATA
	     ON ERROR DO errhand WITH ERROR(), MESSAGE()
	
	     USE customer
	
	     ON ERROR
	
	     PROCEDURE errhand
	     PARAMETERS  errno, errmsg
	     WAIT WINDOW STR(errno)+" "+ errmsg
	     RETURN
	
	Additional query words: 3.00 3.00b free
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbvfp kbvfp300bBUG kbvfp500fix kbbuglist kbfixlist
	Technology        : kbVFPsearch kbAudDeveloper kbVFP300 kbVFP300b
	Version           : WINDOWS:3.0,3.0b
	Issue type        : kbbug
	Solution Type     : kbfix
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
