---
layout: page
title: "Q243681: Copy-Queue Causes &quot;Not Logged in&quot; Requests on NetWare Servers"
permalink: kb/243/Q243681/
---

## Q243681: Copy-Queue Causes &quot;Not Logged in&quot; Requests on NetWare Servers

	Article: Q243681
	Product(s): Microsoft Systems Management Server
	Version(s): winnt:2.0,2.0 SP1
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbClient kbsms200 kbsms200bug kbOSNovell kbsms200sp2fix
	Last Modified: 25-JUN-2000
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Systems Management Server versions 2.0, 2.0 SP1 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	Every time a hardware or software inventory is run, the SMS client generates a
	"Not logged in" request on any Novell NetWare server on which the user has one
	or more drive mappings. This behavior can stress the NetWare servers.
	
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	The requests are generated by the Copy-Queue manager while a check for existing
	connections to the Client Access Point (CAP) is performed. This occurs each time
	a hardware or software inventory notifies Copy-Queue to move the resulting
	inventory file to the CAP.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	To resolve this problem, obtain the latest service pack for Systems Management
	Server version 2.0. For additional information, please see the following article
	in the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q236325 How to Obtain the Latest Systems Management Server 2.0 Service Pack
	
	
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a problem in Systems Management Server
	version 2.0. This problem was first corrected in Systems Management Server
	version 2.0 Service Pack 2.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	To install the hotfix:
	
	1. Copy the Q243681.exe file from the disk on which you received it to a share
	  on your network. This is a Microsoft Windows Installer file that updates
	  specific files on your site server.
	
	2. Log on to your site server using an account with administrative privileges.
	
	3. On the site server, close the SMS Administrator console.
	
	4. Run the file that you copied in step 1 and follow the directions in the
	  wizard.
	
	Note that you can run the Q243681.exe file silently by using the /s switch.
	
	NOTE: The default Client Configuration Installation Manager (CCIM) polling
	interval is 23 hours. Therefore, it may take up to 23 hours for the hotfix files
	to be propagated to the clients. To speed up this process, you can stop and
	restart the SMS Client service on each client. You can also create a software
	distribution for one of the Resource Kit tools (Setevnt.exe or Cliutils.exe)
	along with the appropriate parameter(s) to start a CCIM work cycle. For
	information about the proper syntax to use with these tools, see the Resource
	Kit documentation.
	
	Additional query words: prodsms
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbClient kbsms200 kbsms200bug kbOSNovell kbsms200sp2fix 
	Technology        : kbSMSSearch kbSMS200 kbSMS200SP1
	Version           : winnt:2.0,2.0 SP1
	Issue type        : kbbug
	Solution Type     : kbfix
	
	=============================================================================
	
