---
layout: page
title: "Q115940: Running Windows 3.1 Under Workgroup Add-On for MS-DOS"
permalink: /kb/115/Q115940/
---

## Q115940: Running Windows 3.1 Under Workgroup Add-On for MS-DOS

{% raw %}

	Article: Q115940
	Product(s): Microsoft Access Distribution Kit
	Version(s): MS-DOS:3.11; WINDOWS:3.1
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 22-NOV-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Workgroup Add-On for MS-DOS, version 3.11 
	- Microsoft Windows 3.1 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	If you try to start Windows 3.1 with the server service portion of the Workgroup
	Add-On for MS-DOS running, you receive the following message:
	
	  MS-DOS Workgroup Add-On Peer server is running.
	  Run standard mode Windows or stop the peer server before starting Windows.
	
	Windows 3.1 cannot run in 386 enhanced mode if Workgroup Add-On for MS-DOS is
	running and the server services have been started.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	This error message is generated by the IFSHLP.SYS file that is loaded in the
	CONFIG.SYS file and by loading the server portion of Workgroup Add-On for
	MS-DOS.
	
	WORKAROUND
	==========
	
	To work around this problem, do one of the following:
	
	- Do not start the server portion of Workgroup Add-On for MS-DOS before
	  entering Windows.
	
	- Stop the server portion (type "net stop server" (without the quotation
	  marks)) before you enter Windows.
	
	- Run Windows in standard mode (WIN /S).
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	To run Windows 3.1 with the Workgroup Add-On for MS-DOS 3.11, you must set up
	Windows for the Microsoft Network (or a 100-percent compatible network). After
	doing this, you do have network connectivity; however, if the Workgroup Add-On
	for MS-DOS is set for server capabilities, you still receive the error message.
	
	Running Windows 3.1 with the Workgroup Add-On for MS-DOS 3.11 is supported with
	the full redirector only (for example, NET START FULL). MSNET.DRV does not
	provide full functionality if the basic redirector is loaded (for example, NET
	START BASIC).
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	"Microsoft Workgroup Add-On for MS-DOS User's Guide", Appendix C
	
	Additional query words: 3.11 Dos Sharing share wgao addon
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbAudDeveloper kbWin3xSearch kbWFWSearch kbZNotKeyword3 kbWin310 kbWFW311DOS
	Version           : MS-DOS:3.11; WINDOWS:3.1
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
