---
layout: page
title: "Q142533: 0x640 SAP Packets Increase Using Remote Registry Service"
permalink: /kb/142/Q142533/
---

## Q142533: 0x640 SAP Packets Increase Using Remote Registry Service

{% raw %}

	Article: Q142533
	Product(s): Microsoft Windows 95.x Retail Product
	Version(s): 95
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbenv kbnetwork win95
	Last Modified: 08-AUG-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Windows 95 
	- Microsoft Windows NT Server version 4.0 
	- Microsoft Windows NT Workstation version 4.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	IMPORTANT: This article contains information about editing the registry.
	Before you edit the registry, you should first make a backup copy of the
	registry files (System.dat and User.dat). Both are hidden files in the
	Windows folder.
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you install the Remote Registry service along with the IPX/SPX- Compatible
	network protocol, you may notice an increase in the number of Service
	Advertising Protocol (SAP) packets generated by Windows.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	The Remote Registry service uses Remote Procedure Call (RPC), which registers
	itself over all sockets on a system that includes IPX sockets. RPC registers an
	SAP type of 0x640. This is used to register and resolve names over IPX sockets.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	NOTE: For information about how to edit the registry, view the Changing Keys And
	Values online Help topic in Registry Editor (Regedit.exe). Note that you should
	make a backup copy of the registry files (System.dat and User.dat) before you
	edit the registry.
	
	WARNING: Using Registry Editor incorrectly can cause serious problems that may
	require you to reinstall Windows 95. Microsoft cannot guarantee that problems
	resulting from the incorrect use of Registry Editor can be solved. Use Registry
	Editor at your own risk.
	
	RPC works over NetBIOS, named pipes, or sockets. You can disable SAP only if you
	have some other protocol in common that implements named pipes, TCP/IP sockets,
	or NetBIOS (for example, NetBEUI).
	
	To disable SAP over IPX sockets, delete the ncacn_spx string value from following
	registry key:
	
	  HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Rpc\ServerProtocols\ 
	
	Additional query words: routing table router winnt
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbenv kbnetwork win95 
	Technology        : kbWinNTsearch kbWinNTWsearch kbWinNTW400 kbWinNTW400search kbWinNT400search kbWinNTSsearch kbWinNTS400search kbWinNTS400 kbWin95search kbZNotKeyword3
	Version           : 95
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
