---
layout: page
title: "Q149994: ATAPI Causes CRC Errors on Serial Board"
permalink: /kb/149/Q149994/
---

## Q149994: ATAPI Causes CRC Errors on Serial Board

	Article: Q149994
	Product(s): Microsoft Windows NT
	Version(s): winnt:3.51
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 09-AUG-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Windows NT Workstation version 3.51 
	- Microsoft Windows NT Server version 3.51 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	Your application reports CRC errors when using the ATAPI driver. The error may
	be generated by your serial communication board, and the error message may vary.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	The problem is encountered with the proprietary serial board.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	Change the Atapi.sys by redoing some checks in the Interrupt Service Routine.
	
	For additional information, please see the following article in the Microsoft
	Knowledge Base:
	
	Q139494Multiple CRC Errors and Hardware Overruns Using RAS
	
	NOTE: Applying Service Pack 4 will not fix this problem.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a problem in Windows NT version 3.51. A fix
	to this problem is in development, but has not been regression-tested and may be
	destabilizing in production environments. Microsoft does not recommend
	implementing this fix at this time. Contact Microsoft Product Support Services
	for more information on the availability of this fix.
	
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbWinNTsearch kbWinNTWsearch kbWinNT351search kbWinNTW351search kbWinNTW351 kbWinNTSsearch kbWinNTS351 kbWinNTS351search
	Version           : winnt:3.51
	
	=============================================================================
	
