---
layout: page
title: "Q174264: WinNT ERR: INVALID LINE...IN INF FILE during Windows NT Setup"
permalink: /kb/174/Q174264/
---

## Q174264: WinNT ERR: INVALID LINE...IN INF FILE during Windows NT Setup

	Article: Q174264
	Product(s): Microsoft Windows NT
	Version(s): WinNT:3.5,3.51,4.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbsetup
	Last Modified: 09-AUG-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Windows NT Workstation versions 3.5, 3.51, 4.0 
	- Microsoft Windows NT Server versions 3.5, 3.51, 4.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you perform either an unattended or regular Windows NT setup, you may
	receive the following error message:
	
	  INVALID LINE X IN INF FILE
	
	Where X is usually the numeral 1 or 2 but could be any number.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	There may be a hardware failure or an improper CMOS setting that causes the
	Winnt.sif or Txtsetup.sif file to get corrupted during the file copy portion of
	setup.
	
	This may also be caused by fragmentation on the local drive, bad copy across the
	network, or you may have a typographical error in the Unattend.txt configuration
	file.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	This error message may be generated by one of several problems at a hardware
	level:
	
	- Check the CMOS settings for the computer and verify all settings are correct.
	  You may need to reset the CMOS setting back to factory defaults.
	
	- Check for a L2 cache failure (if it's a Pentium pro machine the L2 cache is
	  built in on the processor).
	
	- Check for bad or mismatched RAM Memory SIMM Modules.
	
	- Remove adapter cards such as NIC, Modems, Sound cards that are not required
	  for booting.
	
	- If all the above fail to detect the problem, there may be a problem with the
	  motherboard.
	
	If an error is received about any other line being invalid, for example: INVALID
	LINE 346 IN INF FILE, an actual setup file may be corrupt. Most Likely this file
	could be a corrupt Unattend.txt file in either Windows NT 3.51 or Windows NT
	4.0. In each case, recreating Unattend.txt using Setupmgr.exe will fix the
	problem.
	
	Additional query words: unattend information
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbsetup 
	Technology        : kbWinNTsearch kbWinNTWsearch kbWinNTW400 kbWinNTW400search kbWinNT351search kbWinNT350search kbWinNT400search kbWinNTW350 kbWinNTW350search kbWinNTW351search kbWinNTW351 kbWinNTSsearch kbWinNTS400search kbWinNTS400 kbWinNTS351 kbWinNTS350 kbWinNTS351search kbWinNTS350search
	Version           : WinNT:3.5,3.51,4.0
	
	=============================================================================
	
