---
layout: page
title: "Q74883: FIX: ^Z in Input File Appears to Truncate Listing File"
permalink: /kb/074/Q74883/
---

## Q74883: FIX: ^Z in Input File Appears to Truncate Listing File

	Article: Q74883
	Product(s): Microsoft Macro Assembler
	Version(s): MS-DOS:6.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 04-MAY-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Macro Assembler (MASM), version 6.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	If one of the source files assembled by the Microsoft Macro Assembler (MASM)
	version 6.0 contains a CTRL+Z character, the listing file generated by the
	assembler may appear to be truncated immediately following the position of that
	source file in the listing.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	The CTRL+Z character is considered to be the end-of-file (EOF) character for
	text files in DOS and OS/2. Many editors support this and use the CTRL+Z as a
	file termination character. Unfortunately, when MASM 6.0 adds files to the
	listing file, it reads the entire file including the CTRL+Z at the end, if there
	is one, and places it in the listing. If you use the DOS or OS/2 operating
	system commands, such as Type or Copy, to display the resultant file, it will
	seem to end at the first occurrence of a CTRL+Z (EOF) character.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	If your editor supports saving a file without a CTRL+Z as the termination
	character, this is the easiest way to work around this problem. If there is no
	CTRL+Z in the source file, it cannot be transferred to the list file.
	
	If you cannot eliminate the CTRL+Z characters, you can load the list file into
	the Programmer's WorkBench (PWB) and remove the CTRL+Z character(s) from the
	file. Because PWB does not rely on CTRL+Z characters for EOFs, the CTRL+Z
	characters will be displayed as right arrow characters (->). You can delete
	these characters just as you can delete any other character. After removing the
	CTRL+Z characters, the DOS or OS/2 commands will operate on the listing file as
	expected.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a problem in MASM version 6.0. This problem
	was corrected in MASM version 6.0a.
	
	Additional query words: 6.00 buglist6.00 fixlist6.00a
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbMASMsearch kbAudDeveloper kbMASM600
	Version           : MS-DOS:6.0
	Solution Type     : kbfix
	
	=============================================================================
	
