---
layout: page
title: "Q189709: FIX: Class Browser Code Does Not Show Correct Visibility"
permalink: kb/189/Q189709/
---

## Q189709: FIX: Class Browser Code Does Not Show Correct Visibility

	Article: Q189709
	Product(s): Microsoft FoxPro
	Version(s): WINDOWS:5.0,5.0a,6.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbservicepack kbAppSetup kbvfp500aBUG kbvfp500bug kbvfp600 kbvfp600bug kbXBase kbVS600s
	Last Modified: 16-JUN-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual FoxPro for Windows, versions 5.0, 5.0a, 6.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you view class code in the Class Browser, some procedures might not reflect
	their true visibility. An intrinsic method that has been marked Hidden or
	Protected might be represented as Public in the code generated by the Class
	Browser.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a bug in the Microsoft products listed at the
	beginning of this article.
	
	This bug has been fixed in the updated version of the Setup Wizard Vfp6swiz.exe
	dated 10/08/1998.
	
	This bug was corrected in Visual Studio 6.0 Service Pack 3. For more information
	about Visual Studio service packs, please see the following articles in the
	Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	Q194022 INFO: Visual Studio 6.0 Service Packs, What, Where, Why
	
	Q194295 HOWTO: Tell That Visual Studio 6.0 Service Packs Are Installed
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Steps to Reproduce Behavior
	---------------------------
	
	1. Create a new visual class based on a form.
	
	2. Change the Visibility of the Error method to Hidden.
	
	3. Add some code to the Error method.
	
	4. Open this class in the Class Browser.
	
	5. View the class code.
	
	  RESULT: The generated code does not indicate that the Error method is Hidden.
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	For more information on the updated Setup Wizard, please see the following URL:
	
	http://msdn.microsoft.com/vfoxpro/downloads/updates.asp
	
	Additional query words: Public
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbservicepack kbAppSetup kbvfp500aBUG kbvfp500bug kbvfp600 kbvfp600bug kbXBase kbVS600sp2 kbVS600SP1 kbVS600sp3fix kbTools 
	Technology        : kbVFPsearch kbAudDeveloper kbVFP500 kbVFP600 kbVFP500a
	Version           : WINDOWS:5.0,5.0a,6.0
	Issue type        : kbbug
	Solution Type     : kbfix
	
	=============================================================================
	
