---
layout: page
title: "Q136515: XADM: &quot;Not Read&quot; Notification"
permalink: kb/136/Q136515/
---

## Q136515: XADM: &quot;Not Read&quot; Notification

	Article: Q136515
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): 4.0 5.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbusage
	Last Modified: 11-MAR-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, version 4.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	This article describes the "Not Read" notification message generated by a
	Microsoft Exchange Server.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	A Microsoft Exchange client user can request notification when a message is
	read. The Exchange Server then sends the message originator a notification
	message when the recipient reads the message.
	
	The notification message has a subject line with the following format:
	
	  Read: <Original Message Subject>
	
	The message body of the notification message has the following format:
	
	  Your message
	
	        To:       Test User
	        Subject:  <Original Message Subject>
	        Sent:     8/22/95 1:27:33 PM
	
	  was read on 8/22/95 1:30:16 PM
	
	Occasionally, when an Exchange user sends a message with Read-Receipt
	notification turned on, the notification message returned has a subject line
	with following format:
	
	  Not Read: <Original Message Subject>
	
	The body of the message contains the following information:
	
	  Your message
	
	     To:       Test User
	     Subject:  Test of Read Notification
	     Sent:     8/22/95 1:14:24PM
	
	  has not yet been read. It has either been deleted or moved to a place
	  where it can no longer be tracked. As a result, no further
	  notifications will be sent.
	
	NOTE: The notification message will not be sent if the message is deleted on the
	server until the deleted folder is emptied. The feature to empty the deleted
	folder is set by default. To change the feature, select Options from the Tools
	menu. Then, under the General tab, select the Empty the 'Deleted Items' Folder
	Upon Exiting check box.
	
	The above notification message can be generated if the message has been deleted
	before it was read or if the recipient has defined a rule in the Inbox Assistant
	that moves the message into a folder located in a .PST file on a local machine,
	before the message was read.
	
	The Microsoft Exchange Information Store service is responsible for tracking
	messages to generate the notification messages. The folders in a user's local
	.PST file cannot be tracked by the information store and hence the "Not Read"
	notification is generated.
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbusage 
	Technology        : kbExchangeSearch kbExchange400 kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : 4.0 5.0
	
	=============================================================================
	
