---
layout: page
title: "Q170461: HOWTO: Passing a License Key to Classes Generated by #import"
permalink: kb/170/Q170461/
---

## Q170461: HOWTO: Passing a License Key to Classes Generated by #import

	Article: Q170461
	Product(s): Microsoft C Compiler
	Version(s): winnt:5.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbADO100 kbCompiler kbDatabase kbMFC kbVC500 kbGrpDSVCDB kbGrpDSMDAC kbDSupport
	Last Modified: 23-AUG-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Enterprise Edition, version 5.0 
	- Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Professional Edition, version 5.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	This article only applies to ADO version 1.0. With ADO 1.5 and above you do not
	need a licence key. ADO 1.5 and above are redistributed with MDAC(Microsoft Data
	Access Components) package. So to get the latest version of ADO, download latest
	version of MDAC from http://www.microsoft.com/data.
	
	The Following Information Applies to ADO 1.0
	--------------------------------------------
	
	The #import directive is used to incorporate information from a type library, but
	makes no provision for a license key. If you installed the OLE DB SDK or
	Internet Information Server 3.0, then the license key is automatically created
	in the registry.
	
	However, if your application is redistributed to machines that have not had
	either OLE DB SDK or Internet Information Server 3.0 installed on them, you need
	to programmatically provide the ADO License Key. This is necessary regardless of
	the development environment you are using to manipulate ADO.
	
	This article is one of a series dealing with redistribution of Microsoft Data
	Access Components (MDAC), including ODBC, OLE DB, ADO, RDS, the MDAC Standalone,
	MDAC Redistribution, and the Data Access SDK. The white paper "Redistributing
	Microsoft Data Access Components" presents a comprehensive overview of this
	subject, including a reference to the content in this Knowledge Base article.
	You can find this white paper in the Microsoft Developer Network at the
	following location:
	
	  http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/techart/msdn_redistmdac.htm
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The following is a typical #import statement:
	
	  #import "msado10.dll" no_namespace rename( "EOF", "adoEOF" )
	
	When using #import to generate classes for ADO, your code to manipulate a
	recordset might look like this:
	
	     HRESULT        hr;
	     _ConnectionPtr pConn;
	     _bstr_t        bstrConnect = SysAllocString( L"driver={sql server};"
	                                                  L"Database=pubs;"
	                                                  L"UID=sa;PWD=;" );
	
	     hr = pConn.CreateInstance(__uuidof(Connection));
	     if (!FAILED(hr))
	
	        pConn->ConnectionString = bstrConnect;
	
	This will work on any machine that has had the ADO 1.0 License Key already
	installed. However, if the license key is not installed, this code will not
	work. The code sample below is functionally equivalent but demonstrates how to
	create an ADO object using a license key.
	
	Sample Code
	-----------
	
	     BSTR            LicKey;
	     IClassFactory2  *pIUnknown = NULL;
	     IUnknown        *pOuter    = NULL;
	     HRESULT         hr;
	     _ConnectionPtr  pConn;
	     _bstr_t         bstrConnect = SysAllocString( L"driver={sql server};"
	                                                   L"Database=pubs;"
	                                                   L"UID=sa;PWD=;" );
	
	     LicKey = SysAllocString( L"gxwaezucfyqpwjgqbcmtsncuhwsnyhiohwxz" );
	
	     // 
	     hr = CoGetClassObject( __uuidof(Connection),
	                            CLSCTX_INPROC_SERVER,
	                            NULL,
	                            IID_IClassFactory2,
	                            reinterpret_cast<void**>(&pIUnknown) );
	     if( !FAILED( hr ) )
	     {
	
	        pIUnknown->CreateInstanceLic( pOuter,
	                                      NULL,
	                                      __uuidof(_Connection),
	                                      LicKey,
	                                      reinterpret_cast>void**> (&pConn) );
	     }
	
	     if( !FAILED( hr ) )
	        pConn->ConnectionString = bstrConnect;
	
	     SysFreeString( LicKey );
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	
	Additional query words: adoengdb
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbADO100 kbCompiler kbDatabase kbMFC kbVC500 kbGrpDSVCDB kbGrpDSMDAC kbDSupport 
	Technology        : kbVCsearch kbAudDeveloper kbVC500 kbVC32bitSearch kbVC500Search
	Version           : winnt:5.0
	Issue type        : kbhowto
	
	=============================================================================
	
