---
layout: page
title: "Q205231: FP: How to Search Using LIKE In SQL Statement For ASP"
permalink: kb/205/Q205231/
---

## Q205231: FP: How to Search Using LIKE In SQL Statement For ASP

	Article: Q205231
	Product(s): Word Front Page
	Version(s): 
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbdta
	Last Modified: 08-OCT-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft FrontPage 2002 
	- Microsoft FrontPage 2000 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	For a Microsoft FrontPage 98 version of this article, see Q194677.
	
	For a Microsoft FrontPage 97 version of this article, see Q190621.
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	This article describes how to search a database using the LIKE parameter in a
	Structured Query Language (SQL) statement in the Database Results Wizard of
	Microsoft FrontPage.
	
	This article assumes that you have a basic knowledge of how to query a database
	using Active Server Pages (ASP) technologies in FrontPage.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	When used in a search, the LIKE clause in SQL can be used to generate a result
	set based on a minimum amount of information typed into the form field of a
	Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) form. For example, if you type "mic%" (without
	the quotation marks) in the form field, the results may include Microsoft,
	microphone, microwave, and so forth.
	
	To use the Database Results Wizard to specify what you want to compare, follow
	thse steps:
	
	1. Open a Web on an Internet Information Services (IIS) Web server and create a
	  new blank page.
	
	2. On the Insert menu, point to Database, and then click Results.
	
	3. In Step 1, choose your Data Source, and then click Next. (For example, click
	  the Northwind sample connection.)
	
	4. In Step 2, click to select Record Source, select the table from which you
	  want to retrieve data, and then click Next. For this example, select the
	  "Employees" table.
	
	5. In Step 3, edit the list of fields that you want to be included in your
	  query.
	
	6. Click More Options.
	
	7. Click Criteria.
	
	8. Click Add.
	
	9. In the Add Criteria dialog box, select the field name you want to compare.
	  For this example, choose "Title".
	
	10. Click the Comparison list, and select "Like" or "Not Like".
	
	11. In the Value box, specify the form field name you will use to search with,
	  and then click OK three times.
	
	12. Click Next twice.
	
	13. In Step 5, click to select the Add Search Form check box to have FrontPage
	  automatically create a search form.
	
	14. Click Finish.
	
	FrontPage will generate a SQL statement like the following:
	
	  SELECT * FROM Employees WHERE (Title LIKE '::Title::')
	
	If you browse to the page and enter "Sales Manager" (without the quotation
	marks), you will see only those records that exactly matched the search string.
	If you enter "Sales%" (without the quotation marks), you will see all records
	that begin with the word "Sales" (without the quotation marks). The resulting
	SQL used by this query would be:
	
	  SELECT * FROM Employees WHERE (Title Like 'Title%')
	
	The precent sign is a wildcard character so that the LIKE string can match
	multiple records.
	
	NOTE: When you first browse the page or if the form field is blank when you
	submit the form, no records from the database will be returned. However, you can
	enter a value of a single precent sign and all records will be returned.
	
	For additional information about SQL queries and FrontPage, click the article
	number below to view the article in the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q306430 FP: SQL Syntax Generated by the FrontPage Database Results Wizard
	
	Additional query words: SQL ASP Database LIKE front page
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbdta 
	Technology        : kbFrontPageSearch kbFrontPage2002 kbFrontPage2000Search kbFrontPage2002Search kbZNotKeyword5
	Version           : :
	Hardware          : x86
	Issue type        : kbhowto
	
	=============================================================================
	
