---
layout: page
title: "Q139960: Limiting LAN Traffic to One Network Adapter"
permalink: kb/139/Q139960/
---

## Q139960: Limiting LAN Traffic to One Network Adapter

	Article: Q139960
	Product(s): Microsoft SNA Server
	Version(s): WINDOWS:2.0,2.1,2.11,3.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbnetwork
	Last Modified: 13-JUN-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft SNA Server, versions 2.0, 2.1, 2.11, 3.0, on platform(s):
	   - the operating system: Microsoft Windows NT 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	Often, systems running SNA Server have more than one network adapter. A network
	administrator may want to limit traffic on the LAN adapter. For example, non-DLC
	traffic on an adapter that is configured for the 802.2 link service.
	
	This can be accomplished by disabling selected bindings on the network adapter
	that provides the upstream connection to the host system.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The example below assumes two network adapters, one ethernet and one Token Ring.
	The ethernet adapter is configured for NetBIOS over TCP/IP and the Token Ring
	adapter is configured for DLC, NetBEUI, IPX/SPX and NetBIOS over TCP/IP.
	
	The objective is to limit LAN traffic on the upstream DLC connection to the host
	by disabling selected bindings on the Token Ring adapter. The steps necessary to
	perform this operation are outlined below:
	
	1. Show Bindings for All Components in the Network Bindings Dialog Box.
	
	2. Disable the following bindings:
	
	     NetBIOS Interface --> WINS Client (TCP/IP) -->
	     IBM Token Ring Adapter Driver --> (2) IBM Token Ring 4/16 Adapter
	
	     NetBIOS Interface --> NetBEUI Protocol  -->
	     IBM Token Ring Adapter Driver --> (2) IBM Token Ring 4/16 Adapter
	
	     Server --> WINS Client (TCP/IP) --> IBM Token Ring Adapter Driver -->
	     (2) IBM Token 4/16 Adapter
	
	     Server -->  NetBEUI Protocol --> IBM Token Ring Adapter Driver -->
	     (2) IBM Token Ring 4/16 Adapter
	
	     Workstation --> WINS Client (TCP/IP) -->
	     IBM Token Ring Adapter Driver --> (2) IBM TokenRing 4/16 Adapter
	
	     Workstation --> NetBEUI Protocol -->
	     IBM Token Ring Adapter Driver --> (2) IBM Token Ring 4/16 Adapter
	
	     NWLink IPX/SPX Compatible Transport -->
	     IBM Token Ring Adapter Driver --> (2) IBM TokenRing 4/16 Adapter
	
	3. Accept changes and restart the server.
	
	NOTE: It is not necessary to disable SNA Server Link service or DLC transport
	bindings because the SNA Server DLC 802.2 link service only communicates over
	the adapter specified during SNA Server Setup. There is no traffic generated by
	the SNA Server link service over the unused DLC card binding.
	
	Additional query words: prodsna
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbnetwork 
	Technology        : kbAudDeveloper kbSNAServSearch
	Version           : WINDOWS:2.0,2.1,2.11,3.0
	Issue type        : kbinfo
	
	=============================================================================
	
