---
layout: page
title: "Q272436: SMS: Support Utilities Updated in Service Pack 2"
permalink: /kb/272/Q272436/
---

## Q272436: SMS: Support Utilities Updated in Service Pack 2

	Article: Q272436
	Product(s): Microsoft Systems Management Server
	Version(s): 2.0 SP2
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbsms200
	Last Modified: 06-AUG-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Systems Management Server version 2.0 SP2 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	This article provides a brief introduction to the Systems Management Server
	(SMS) Support utilities that are available with SMS Service Pack 2 (SP2).
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The utilities are located in the Support Tools and can be installed by running
	Support.exe from the \Support folder on the SMS 2.0 CD-ROM.
	
	SrvInfo.exe
	You can use SrvInfo.exe (a command-line utility) to gather information about
	Windows NT computers. This utility provides the Windows build number, the amount
	of disk space, and a list of running services with status and system up time for
	the computer. You can gather information on remote computers by using the
	following command: srvinfo \\<computername>.
	
	Preinst.exe
	You can use Preinst.exe to manage your hierarchy, primarily between parent and
	child SMS 2.0 sites. You can use it to remove sites, delete sites, upgrade
	sites, delete jobs and to synchronize parent and child information.
	
	SMS Extract
	You can use SMS Extract to run the same SMS queries that are found in Queries in
	the SMS Administrator console. SMS Extract has two varieties, Microsoft Excel
	files and Microsoft Access files.
	
	Info Gatherer (SMS20info.exe)
	You can use Info Gatherer to automatically collect comprehensive information
	about your SMS site and your SMS site server. You can provide this information
	to the Microsoft Systems Management Server team when it is required.
	
	APM Spy (APMSpy.exe)
	You can use APM Spy to view internal Available Programs Manager (APM) data for a
	client in a readable format. APM Spy is a console tool that you should install
	and run on a client.
	
	Client Cleaner (20CliCln.bat)
	You can use Client Cleaner to remove an SMS 2.0 client by removing SMS client
	components.
	
	Client Utilities (Cliutils.exe)
	You can use Client Utilities to perform various SMS functions on a client
	including signaling a start cycle event for a client component, forcing a client
	component to cycle, starting a client component, stopping a client component and
	displaying the schedule of a client component in a readable format.
	
	Client Travel Mode (CliTravl.exe and ChkTravl.bat)
	You can use the Client Travel Mode to enable the administration to set and check
	the Travel mode options on the client through a command line tool. If you keep
	Travel mode active, it prevents the SMS-based client from removing itself when
	it is temporarily not a member of any site(s). In this situation, the default
	setting for active Travel mode prompts the user when site assignments change.
	
	Disable and Enable Client Upgrade (DisableClientUpgrade.reg and
	EnableClientUpgrade.reg)
	SMS 2.0 SP2 contains a change which enables customers added control over network
	bandwidth usage that is consumed when SMS-based clients automatically upgrade to
	newer versions of the SMS-based client.
	
	NOTE: The disabled client does not run any client component operations. You can
	avoid loading a hot fix or service pack over a slow dial-up link by disabling
	your slow link clients, and then enabling them later. The delivery mechanism of
	the Disable and Enable option is flexible and you can run the mechanism through
	collections and software distribution. You may also send it through mail, or run
	it in a logon script, or off a Web page. You can also use the logon script slow
	link detection, and set the logon script to Disable if there is a slow link or
	Enable when a fast link is detected.
	
	Process Viewer 95 (Pview95.exe)
	Process Viewer is a Microsoft Windows 95 tool that you can use to investigate
	process memory use. Process Viewer's graphical user interface displays
	information about processes on local and remote Windows 95-based, or Windows
	98-based computers. Process Viewer is similar to Windows NT Task Manager. You
	can use Process Viewer 95 to stop a running process and change the base priority
	class of the process.
	
	Zap (Zap.exe)
	You can use the Zap tool to delete a file that is either in use or cannot
	otherwise be deleted. After you run this tool and restart the computer, the file
	is deleted.
	
	Dump Error Message (Error32.exe)
	You can use Dump Error Message to display the text of a message for a specified
	Windows NT error code generated by Win32 subsystems, drivers, or services. For
	example, if you receive an error message that references a specific error code,
	you can use this tool to retrieve the text for the message to help troubleshoot
	the error.
	
	Dump Scheduler Data (DumpSend.exe)
	You can use Dump Scheduler Data to view data from a Scheduler Send Request (.srq)
	file. You can use the data to troubleshoot software distribution or to gather
	more information about sender errors.
	
	Nal Logging (Turn_on_nal_logging.reg,Turn_off_nal_logging.reg)
	You can use Network Abstraction Level Logging (NAL) to enable or disable NAL
	logon to an SMS-based site server. This tool can be used to troubleshoot network
	connectivity issues from clients and servers.
	
	Read Schedule (ReadSche.exe)
	You can use Read Schedule to display schedule string data in a readable format to
	troubleshoot schedule issues. A schedule string is a representation of the
	various schedules that you can use with SMS 2.0. Most schedule strings are
	stored in the site control file, but some strings are stored in the SMS site
	database.
	
	SMS Trace (Trace32.exe)
	You can use SMS Trace to display SMS service log files in real time. When you run
	SMS Trace, log file data is automatically displayed as it is added to the log
	file. You can install and run SMS Trace on an SMS 2.0-based server or client.
	Before you use SMS Trace, you must first use SMS Service Manager to log on.
	
	Client Component MOF File (SMSClient.mof)
	You can use Client Component MOF File to report data on each client component.
	For each component, the current and pending version is reported as well as the
	current state, for example, Not Available, Installed, or Reboot Required.
	
	NOTE: This information is reported on the client in Control Panel in the Systems
	Management tool. SMS gathers this data during hardware inventory and displays it
	in the Resource Explorer under the SMS Client State group class.
	
	Dump Discovery Data (Discdump.exe)
	You can use Dump Discovery Data to view Network Discovery data from the local
	discovery data record (DDR) file in a readable format. You must install and run
	this tool on the client. The Dump Discovery Data tool is a command-line tool.
	
	Inventory Synchronizer (InvSync.exe)
	You can use Inventory Synchronizer to send a hardware or software inventory
	synchronization request to a client. This tool cannot send a synchronization
	request to a client that belongs to a child site. Instead, you should run this
	tool directly from the child site.
	
	NOTE: You can only run the Inventory Synchronizer tool from an SMS-based site
	server.
	
	MOF Manager (MOFMan.exe)
	You can use MOF Manager to edit the SMS_def.mof file. This file is the Managed
	Object Format (MOF) file that specifies which hardware classes and attributes
	are collected for hardware inventory. The MOF Manager tool does not work with
	any other MOF files.
	
	Software Inventory Viewer (SinvView.exe)
	You can use Software Inventory Viewer to view data processed by SMS Software
	Inventory Processor in a readable format. You can use this tool to view data
	from both full inventory files (.sic) and delta inventory files (.sid). You can
	also use this tool to view data from the software inventory history file
	(Sinv.his). The output from this tool can be used to verify that the data that
	is displayed in the SMS Administrator console is the same data that the client
	is actually generating.
	
	Advertisement Information (AdvInfo.exe)
	You can use Advertisement Information to display information from the header of a
	package file (.pkg) or an advertised programs offer file (.ofr) including the
	package ID, name, version, language, Management Information Format (MIF) file
	information, program command line, and disk space requirements.
	
	Test Application (TestApp.exe)
	You can use Test Application to verify that a package command line and location
	are correct. You can run this tool as a dummy program when you test a software
	distribution package. When the program runs, Test Application displays a dialog
	box that indicates where it was started from and the command line that is used
	to run it.
	
	AdvertView (Advertview.exe)
	You can use AdvertView to provide a comprehensive status of advertisement on
	individual SMS-based clients or collections over various user-defined
	intervals.
	
	For more detailed information about the individual utilities, consult the
	Tools.htm file that is provided with the Support.exe installation.
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	Microsoft Systems Management Server 2.0 Resource Guide, Chapters 13, 14 and 15.
	
	For additional information, click the article number below to view the article in
	the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q212978 SMS: Description of Preinst.exe for Systems Management Server 2.0
	
	  Q261246 SMS: Sms20info Tool Added to Support.exe in SMS 2.0 Service Pack 2
	
	  Q256936 SMS: Showgrps Tool Added to Support.exe in Service Pack 2
	
	  Q243385 SMS: Enabling Network Abstraction Layer Logging and Setting Logging
	  Levels
	
	  Q158388 Useful Resource Kit Utilities for Domain Administrators
	
	  Q235869 SMS: How to Use Cliutils.exe to Force Inventory to Occur
	
	  Q200645 SMS: Dumpsend.exe: Display Send Request for Systems Management Server
	  2.0
	
	  Q206800 SMS: How to Force Hardware and Software Inventory in SMS 2.0
	
	  Q247949 SMS: How to Create a Simple Test Advertisement
	
	Additional query words: prodsms
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbsms200 
	Technology        : kbSMSSearch kbSMS200SP2
	Version           : :2.0 SP2
	Issue type        : kbinfo
	
	=============================================================================
	
