---
layout: page
title: "Q142888: FIX: Developer Studio Fails to Recognize Makefile and Quits"
permalink: /kb/142/Q142888/
---

## Q142888: FIX: Developer Studio Fails to Recognize Makefile and Quits

{% raw %}

	Article: Q142888
	Product(s): Microsoft C Compiler
	Version(s): 4.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbide kbVC kbVC410fix kbGrpDSTools
	Last Modified: 03-AUG-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual C++, version 4.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you try to open a previously valid workspace file, Developer Studio
	displays the following error message:
	
	  The makefile <makefile pathname> has been modified and cannot be used
	  as an internal project workspace.
	
	When you click the OK button, the following information appears:
	
	  <makefile pathname>
	
	  This makefile was not generated by Developer Studio.
	
	  Continuing will create a new Developer Studio workspace to wrap this makefile.
	  You will be prompted to save after the new workspace has been created.
	
	  Are you sure you want to continue?
	
	If you click the OK button in this dialog box, you will get an application error
	in Developer Studio, and Developer Studio will quit.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	If you have not directly modified the makefile (.mak file) intentionally or
	unintentionally, the error may be the result of an invalid pathname that
	Developer Studio has written in the file.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	IMPORTANT: In general, Microsoft does not support directly modifying the
	makefiles that Developer Studio creates. Be sure to make a backup copy of the
	makefile before attempting to make any modifications.
	
	Open the makefile as a text file, and search for the string ".\:", or any
	pathname that contains a colon (:). It may appear in a section starting with
	NODEP_CPP_ or DEP_CPP_.
	
	The colon is not a valid character in a pathname for Windows NT or Windows 95.
	Remove any colons you find in a pathname. In the case of ".\:", remove the
	leading backslash also, so the pathname appears as "." instead.
	
	To open the makefile as a text file in Developer Studio, click Open on the File
	menu, navigate to the directory where the makefile is located, and then select
	Text in the Open As box before selecting the makefile.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a bug in the Microsoft products listed at the
	beginning of this article. This bug was corrected in Visual C++ 4.1.
	
	Additional query words: kbVC400bug 4.00 4.10 crashes
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbide kbVC kbVC410fix kbGrpDSTools 
	Technology        : kbVCsearch kbVC400 kbAudDeveloper
	Version           : :4.0
	Issue type        : kbbug
	Solution Type     : kbfix
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
