---
layout: page
title: "Q138973: PRB: AppWizard Projects Always Added to Component Gallery"
permalink: kb/138/Q138973/
---

## Q138973: PRB: AppWizard Projects Always Added to Component Gallery

	Article: Q138973
	Product(s): Microsoft C Compiler
	Version(s): winnt:
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbwizard kbMFC kbVC400 kbGrpDSTools
	Last Modified: 06-MAY-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- The AppWizard, used with:
	   - Microsoft Visual C++ 32-bit Edition, version 4.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	Every project generated by AppWizard is automatically added to the Component
	Gallery.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	This behavior is by design.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Although this is by design, you may want to turn off the automatic insertion of
	AppWizard-generated projects into Component Gallery. To do this, you must change
	the setting of a registry key. The key is:
	
	  HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Developer\Gallery\ScanProjects
	
	Setting this key to a value of 1 causes AppWizard-generated projects to be added
	to the Component Gallery. A value of 0 disables this feature.
	
	The Gallery\ScanProjects key does not exist by default. You must create it. To
	add this key to the registry, do the following:
	
	In Windows 95
	-------------
	
	1. Run Regedit by clicking Start on the Run menu.
	
	2. Select the HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Developer key.
	
	3. Add the Gallery Key by on the Edit menu, clicking New and then clicking Key.
	
	4. Select the Gallery Key, and add a DWORD value named ScanProjects by on the
	  Edit menu, clicking New and then clicking DWORD.
	
	5. Set the value of ScanProjects to the needed value. The value can be changed
	  by double-clicking the value name or by selecting the name and on the Edit
	  menu, clicking Modify. Set the value to one of these:
	
	  0 - disable adding projects to component gallery
	  1 - enable adding projects to component gallery
	
	In Windows NT
	-------------
	
	1. Run Regedt32 by on the File menu clicking Run in Program Manager.
	
	2. Select the HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Developer key.
	
	3. Add the Gallery Key. This key is created by on the Edit menu, clicking Add
	  Key. The Class edit box should be blank.
	
	4. Select the Gallery Key, and add a DWORD value named ScanProjects by on the
	  Edit menu, clicking Add Value. The Data Type should be REG_DWORD.
	
	5. Set the value of ScanProjects to 0 or 1 depending on the needed behavior. The
	  value can be changed by double-clicking the value name or by selecting the
	  name, and on the Edit menu, clicking DWORD. Set the value to one of these:
	
	  0 - disable adding projects to component gallery
	  1 - enable adding projects to component gallery
	
	Additional query words: 4.00
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbwizard kbMFC kbVC400 kbGrpDSTools 
	Technology        : kbVCsearch kbAudDeveloper kbAppWizard
	Version           : winnt:
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	
