---
layout: page
title: "Q110817: Mac Srv: Server Detect Message Displays Asterisk for Zone Name"
permalink: /kb/110/Q110817/
---

## Q110817: Mac Srv: Server Detect Message Displays Asterisk for Zone Name

{% raw %}

	Article: Q110817
	Product(s): Microsoft Mail For Appletalk Networks
	Version(s): WINDOWS:3.1d
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 09-NOV-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Mail for AppleTalk Networks, version 3.1d 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	Version 3.1d of Microsoft Mail for AppleTalk Networks may sometimes display an
	asterisk (*) in the zone name field in a server-detected message.
	
	Server-detected messages are generated by the server to the Network Manager when
	a server that has not been seen before is placed on the network.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	This may occur for one of the following three reasons:
	
	1. The server is not connected to an Apple Internet; therefore, no Internet
	  routers exist. Routers provide zone information on an AppleTalk network.
	
	2. When a new server, Server B, asks for the version of an existing server,
	  Server A, then Server A also learns about the existence of Server B. Server A
	  has a network address it can use to send mail to Server B, but it does not
	  have the textual name of Server B's zone. Server A enters an asterisk (*) for
	  the zone. The next time Server A does a full network scan, it will learn what
	  zone Server B is in. The "*" zone is a temporary state that a new server
	  might be in for a few hours until it is seen on a normal scan.
	
	3. To determine the zone name of a new server, a Network Manager can use the
	  Global Server Report option from the Mail Network Administrator program. Once
	  the mail server has obtained full information about the new mail server, the
	  zone information will be displayed.
	
	Additional query words: 3.10d
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbMailSearch kbZNotKeyword3 kbMailATN310d
	Version           : WINDOWS:3.1d
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
