---
layout: page
title: "Q131368: HOWTO: Create MFC Applications that Do Not Have a Menu Bar"
permalink: /kb/131/Q131368/
---

## Q131368: HOWTO: Create MFC Applications that Do Not Have a Menu Bar

	Article: Q131368
	Product(s): Microsoft C Compiler
	Version(s): 1.0,1.5,1.51,1.52,2.0,2.1,4.0,4.1,4.2,5.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbDocView kbMenu kbMFC KbUIDesign kbVC150 kbVC200 kbVC400 kbVC500 kbVC600
	Last Modified: 13-MAY-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- The Microsoft Foundation Classes (MFC), used with:
	   - Microsoft Visual C++ for Windows, 16-bit edition, versions 1.5, 1.51, 1.52 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Editions, versions 1.0, 2.0, 2.1, 4.0, 4.1 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Enterprise Edition, versions 4.2, 5.0 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Professional Edition, versions 4.2, 5.0 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++.NET (2002) 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	For most Windows-based applications, a menu bar is a part of the user interface.
	The menu bar provides a functionality summary for the person using the program.
	However, it is not required that every Windows-based application must contain a
	menu bar. This article describes how to create an MFC application that does not
	have a menu bar.
	
	For Windows-based applications generated by AppWizard, the IDR_MAINFRAME menu
	resource is the standard menu resource for both SDI and MDI applications. It is
	the only menu resource for an SDI application. MDI applications contain
	additional menus for each type of MDI child window they support. Those menu
	resources are usually named IDR_xxxTYPE, where xxx is related to the name of the
	corresponding document type. Thus, creating an application with no menus is not
	as easy for an MDI application as for an SDI application. You basically have to
	modify all functions related to loading and switching menus.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Steps to Create SDI Application that Has No Menu Bar
	----------------------------------------------------
	
	1. Generate an SDI application with AppWizard. Do not delete the IDR_MAINFRAME
	  menu resource. If you have an application that was not generated with
	  AppWizard, do not delete the corresponding main menu resource. Leaving the
	  menu resource is required to avoid assertion failures in the MFC code.
	
	2. To prevent the main application window from having a menu bar, delete the
	  already loaded menu, and set the hMenu field of the CREATESTRUCT structure to
	  NULL in the CFrameWnd::PreCreateWindow() function:
	
	        BOOL CMainFrame::PreCreateWindow(CREATESTRUCT& cs)
	        {
	           if(cs.hMenu!=NULL)
	           {
	               ::DestroyMenu(cs.hMenu);      // delete menu if loaded
	               cs.hMenu = NULL;              // no menu for this window
	           }
	
	           return CFrameWnd::PreCreateWindow(cs);
	        }
	
	Steps to Create MDI Application that Has No Menu Bar
	----------------------------------------------------
	
	1. Generate an MDI application with AppWizard. Do not delete the IDR_MAINFRAME
	  menu resource. If you have an application that was not generated with
	  AppWizard, do not delete the corresponding main menu resource. Leaving the
	  menu resource is required to avoid assertion failures in the MFC code.
	
	2. Delete menu resources associated with MDI child windows (IDR_xxxTYPE). They
	  are not used. By deleting them, you avoid a resource (memory) leak.
	
	3. Override the PreCreateWindow() function for the CMainFrame class:
	
	        BOOL CMainFrame::PreCreateWindow(CREATESTRUCT& cs)
	        {
	           if(cs.hMenu!=NULL)
	           {
	               ::DestroyMenu(cs.hMenu);      // delete menu if loaded
	               cs.hMenu = NULL;              // no menu for this window
	           }
	
	           return CMDIFrameWnd::PreCreateWindow(cs);
	        }
	
	4. Modify the code responsible for switching menus by overriding the LoadFrame()
	  and OnCreateClient() methods of CMainFrame. This is necessary because MFC has
	  already loaded and switched menus automatically. The following shows what
	  must be done:
	
	        // Overridden method declarations for CMainFrame
	
	        BOOL LoadFrame( UINT nIDResource,
	               DWORD dwDefaultStyle = WS_OVERLAPPEDWINDOW | FWS_ADDTOTITLE,
	               CWnd* pParentWnd = NULL, CCreateContext* pContext = NULL );
	        BOOL CMainFrame::OnCreateClient(LPCREATESTRUCT lpcs,
	               CCreateContext* /*pContext*/);
	
	        // Overridden method declarations for CMainFrame
	
	        BOOL CMainFrame::LoadFrame(UINT nIDResource, DWORD dwDefaultStyle,
	               CWnd* pParentWnd, CCreateContext* pContext)
	        {
	            return CFrameWnd::LoadFrame(nIDResource,dwDefaultStyle,
	                pParentWnd,pContext);
	        }
	
	        BOOL CMainFrame::OnCreateClient(LPCREATESTRUCT lpcs,
	                CCreateContext* /*pContext*/)
	        {
	            return CreateClient(lpcs,NULL);
	        }
	
	NOTE: Instead of calling the base class (CMDIFrameWnd) in the override of
	LoadFrame, you call its base class, CFrameWnd, instead. That way you can avoid
	the code that deals with MDI menus.
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbDocView kbMenu kbMFC KbUIDesign kbVC150 kbVC200 kbVC400 kbVC500 kbVC600 
	Technology        : kbAudDeveloper kbMFC
	Version           : :1.0,1.5,1.51,1.52,2.0,2.1,4.0,4.1,4.2,5.0
	Issue type        : kbhowto
	
	=============================================================================
	
