---
layout: page
title: "Q173364: XADM: Exchange 5.0 and 5.5 Tracking Log Event Numbers"
permalink: /kb/173/Q173364/
---

## Q173364: XADM: Exchange 5.0 and 5.5 Tracking Log Event Numbers

	Article: Q173364
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): 5.0,5.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): exc5 exc55
	Last Modified: 12-JUL-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, versions 5.5, 5.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	Tracking logs are created when message tracking is enabled on a Microsoft
	Exchange Server component. These logs can be read and edited by any text editor.
	The logs are tab delimited and can be loaded into spreadsheet programs like
	Microsoft Excel. You can also write an application to interpret message tracking
	logs.
	
	For a list of the tracking log events generated by Microsoft Exchange Server,
	version 4.0, please refer to the following article in the Microsoft Knowledge
	Base:
	
	  Q174078 XADM: Tracking Log Event Numbers for Exchange 4.0
	
	The events 1010 thru 1018 were not available in previous versions of Microsoft
	Exchange Server.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Message tracking must be enabled for a component to begin recording activity in
	the tracking log. When you enable message tracking for any component, all
	similar components on servers in that site write to the tracking log.
	
	To Enable Message Tracking for the Information Store
	----------------------------------------------------
	
	1. In the Exchange Server Administrator program, double-click Information Store
	  Site Configuration.
	
	2. Click the General tab, and click to select the "Enable message tracking"
	  check box.
	
	To Enable Message Tracking for the MTA
	--------------------------------------
	
	1. In the Exchange Server Administrator program, double-click MTA Site
	  Configuration.
	
	2. Click the General tab, and click to select the "Enable message tracking"
	  check box.
	
	To Enable Message Tracking for the Internet Mail Connector
	----------------------------------------------------------
	
	1. Double-click on the Internet mail connector for this site.
	
	2. Click the Internet Mail tab, and click to select the "Enable message
	  tracking" check box.
	
	Tracking logs are located in Exchsrvr\Tracking.log. Each daily log is named by
	the date on which it was created in yyyymmdd.log format. The file name date,
	like all time in the tracking log, is in Greenwich mean time.
	
	The following table defines the event numbers in the tracking logs.
	
	Event#   Event Type                    Description
	
	0        Message transfer in           The message was received from a
	                                      server, connector, or gateway.
	
	1        Probe transfer in             An X.400 Probe was received from a
	                                      gateway, link, or MTA.
	
	2        Report transfer in            A delivery receipt or NDR was
	                                      received from a server, connector,
	                                      or gateway.
	
	4        Message submission            The message was sent by the client.
	
	5        Probe submission              An X.400 Probe was received from a
	                                      user.
	
	6        Probe transfer out            An X.400 Probe was sent to a 
	                                      gateway, link, or MTA.
	
	7        Message transfer out          The message was sent to a server,
	                                      connector, or gateway.
	
	8        Report transfer out           A delivery receipt or NDR was sent
	                                      to a server, connector, or gateway.
	
	9        Message delivered             The message was delivered to a
	                                      mailbox or public folder.
	
	10       Report delivered              A delivery receipt or NDR was
	                                      delivered to a mailbox.
	
	26       Distribution list expansion   A recipient distribution list was
	                                      expanded so the message could be
	                                      sent to different addresses.
	
	28       Message redirected            The message was sent to a mailbox
	                                      other than those of the recipients.
	
	29       Message rerouted              The message was routed to an
	                                      alternate path.
	
	31       Downgrading                   An X.400 message was downgraded to
	                                      1984 format prior to relay.
	
	33       Report absorption             The number of delivery receipts or
	                                      NDRs exceeded a threshold, and the
	                                      reports were deleted.
	
	34       Report generation             A delivery receipt or NDR was
	                                      created.
	
	43       Unroutable report discarded   A delivery receipt or NDR could not
	                                      be routed and was deleted from the
	                                      queue.
	
	50       Gateway deleted message       The Administrator deleted an X.400
	                                      message queued for a gateway.
	
	51       Gateway deleted probe         The Administrator deleted an X.400
	                                      probe queued for a gateway.
	
	52       Gateway deleted report        The administrator deleted an X.400
	                                      report queued for a gateway.
	
	1000     Local Delivery                The sender and recipient are on the
	                                      same server.
	
	1001     Backbone transfer in          Mail was received from another MAPI
	                                      system across a connector or
	                                      gateway.
	
	1002     Backbone transfer out         Mail was sent to another MAPI
	                                      system across a connector or
	                                      gateway.
	
	1003     Gateway transfer out          The message was sent through a
	                                      gateway.
	
	1004     Gateway transfer in           The message was received from a
	                                      gateway.
	
	1005     Gateway report transfer in    A delivery receipt or NDR was
	                                      received from a gateway.
	
	1006     Gateway report transfer out   A delivery receipt or NDR was sent
	                                      through a gateway.
	
	1007     Gateway report generation     A gateway generated an NDR for a
	                                      message.
	
	1010     SMTP Queued Outbound          Outbound mail was queued for
	                                      delivery by the Internet Mail
	                                      Service.
	
	1011     SMTP Transferred              Outbound Outbound mail was
	                                      transferred to an Internet
	                                      recipient.
	
	1012     SMTP Received                 Inbound Inbound mail was received
	                                      from by the Internet Mail Service.
	
	1013     SMTP Transferred              Inbound Mail received by the
	                                      Internet Mail Service was
	                                      transferred to the Information
	                                      Store.
	
	1014     SMTP Message Rerouted         An Internet message is being
	                                      rerouted or forwarded to the proper
	                                      location.
	
	1015     SMTP Report Transferred In    A delivery receipt or NDR was
	                                      received by the Internet Mail
	                                      Service.
	
	1016     SMTP Report Transferred Out   A delivery receipt or NDR was sent
	                                      to the Internet Mail Service.
	
	1017     SMTP Report Generated         A delivery receipt or NDR was
	                                      created.
	
	1018     SMTP Report Absorbed          The receipt or NDR could not be
	                                      delivered, and was absorbed. (It is
	                                      not possible to send an NDR for an
	                                      NDR.)
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : exc5 exc55 
	Technology        : kbExchangeSearch kbExchange500 kbExchange550 kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : :5.0,5.5
	Issue type        : kbinfo
	
	=============================================================================
	
