---
layout: page
title: "Q191924: INFO: Application Wizard Basic Architecture"
permalink: /kb/191/Q191924/
---

## Q191924: INFO: Application Wizard Basic Architecture

{% raw %}

	Article: Q191924
	Product(s): Microsoft FoxPro
	Version(s): WINDOWS:6.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 13-AUG-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual FoxPro for Windows, version 6.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	This article describes the core components and classes used by the application
	framework. The application framework is the foundation for new applications
	generated by the Visual FoxPro 6.0 Application Wizard.
	
	The Visual FoxPro 6.0 help topic entitled "Developing Applications Using the
	Application Framework" is the source of this information.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The following table lists files created and/or used by the Application Wizard
	for an application named Wines that tracks a wine collection. The Application
	Wizard creates files using a naming convention that incorporates the name of the
	application, as shown in the table.
	
	  Application File          Description
	  -------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	  Wines.app                 This is your application created from the
	                            Build dialog box.
	
	  Wines.pjx(pjt)            This is your project file.
	
	  Wines_app.dbf(fpt, cdx)   This is the meta-table which stores form and
	                            report information entered into the
	                            Application Builder.
	
	  Wines_app.h               This include file contains a number of
	                            settings controlling the application
	                            framework, each of which you can set.
	
	  Wines_app.log             This is a log file you can use to record
	                            changes during application development.
	
	  Appuser.dbf(fpt, cdx)     If you choose to include User Login dialog
	                            boxes, this file is created to store password
	                            and user preferences (option settings and
	                            favorites).
	
	  Config.fpw                Contains run-time startup settings including
	                            the ability to hide the Visual FoxPro desktop
	                            if the Top-Level form option is selected.
	
	  Libs\Wines_app.vcx(vct)   These are the classes used by your
	                            application. They are subclassed from the
	                            framewk library enabling you to modify these
	                            at will. Avoid editing the classes
	                            in _FRAMEWK if possible.
	
	  Menus\Wines_main.mnx(mnt) This menu is used when you set the application
	                            type to Normal.
	
	  Menus\Wines_go.mnx(mnt)   This is the navigation menu used by forms when
	                            the navigation menu option is selected in the
	                            Forms tab of the Application Builder.
	
	  Menus\Wines_top.mnx(mnt)  This menu is used when you set the application
	                            type to Top-Level.
	
	  Menus
	  \Wines_append.mnx(mnt)    This menu is used when you set the application
	                            type to Module.
	
	  Progs\Wines_app.prg       This is the main program, the point from which
	                            an application starts. It performs the
	                            following functions:
	
	                               - Displays Splash screen.
	
	                               - Creates the application object.
	
	                               - Sets the application paths and settings.
	
	                               - Starts the application.
	
	  Vfp\Wizards
	  \_Framewk.vcx(vct)        The framework contains the core set of classes
	                            used by the application framework. These
	                            include common classes such as: splash and
	                            aboutbox dialog boxes, application object,
	                            userlogin, and the standardtoolbar to name a
	                            few. Most of these classes are subclassed in
	                            the Wines_app.vcx library. If you make changes
	                            at all, change classes in Wines_app and not in
	                            _framewk.
	
	  Vfp\Ffc\_app.vcx(vct)     This foundation class library contains classes
	                            used to manage an application environment.
	
	  Vfp\Ffc\_base.vcx(vct)    This is the class library containing base
	                            classes from which all foundation classes are
	                            subclassed.
	
	  Vfp\Ffc\setobjrf.prg      This file is used internally by the classes in
	                            _base.
	
	  Vfp\Ffc\_reports.vcx(vct) This foundation class library contains classes
	                            used to handle reporting and output.
	
	  Vfp\Ffc\_table.vcx(vct)   This foundation class library contains classes
	                            used to perform all data querying and
	                            navigation.
	
	  Vfp\FFC\_UI.vcx(vct)      This foundation class library contains classes
	                            used to manage various user interface routines
	                            such as Windows management.
	
	In this example, the class library in which you would most likely want to modify
	the application framework is Wines_app.vcx. The following table lists the
	classes:
	
	  Application-Specific Class     Description
	  -------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	  App_aboutbox                   Provides an About dialog box.
	
	  App_application                Manages all operations and events in the
	                                 application.
	
	  App_changepassword             Provides a Password dialog box.
	
	  App_errorlogviewer             Provides an Error Log dialog box.
	
	  App_favoritepicker             Provides a Favorites menu and item
	                                 picker.
	
	  App_navtoolbar                 Provides data Navigation toolbar
	                                 functionality.
	
	  App_newopen                    Provides New and Open dialog box
	                                 functionality.
	
	  App_options                    Provides an Options dialog box.
	
	  App_reportpicker               Displays a dialog box to select reports
	                                 for printing.
	
	  App_splash                     Provides an application Splash screen.
	
	  App_standardtoolbar            Provides Standard toolbar functionality.
	
	  App_topform                    Provides a form frame object with menus
	                                 for Top-Level applications.
	
	  App_userlogin                  Provides a User Login dialog box.
	
	These classes enable you to create or access supporting forms and dialog boxes in
	your application.
	
	Because the Application Wizard adds Foundation Classes to your application
	project, you can also change the basis of the form and reports that comprise
	your application.
	
	You can use wizards to create new databases, tables, forms and reports for the
	project from which you create your application. You can use the Class Browser to
	subclass the classes from which your forms and other application objects and
	functionality are generated.
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	Visual FoxPro 6.0 Help; search on: "Developing Applications Using the
	Application Framework"
	
	Additional query words: PGFest600 kbVFp600 kbwizard kbFFC
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbVFPsearch kbAudDeveloper kbVFP600
	Version           : WINDOWS:6.0
	Issue type        : kbinfo
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
