---
layout: page
title: "Q222508: XFOR: IMS Sends MIME Plain Text as HTML &amp; Plain Text"
permalink: /kb/222/Q222508/
---

## Q222508: XFOR: IMS Sends MIME Plain Text as HTML &amp; Plain Text

{% raw %}

	Article: Q222508
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): winnt:5.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): exc55 EXC55SP3Fix
	Last Modified: 11-JUN-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, version 5.5 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	
	IMPORTANT: This article contains information about modifying the registry. Before you modify the registry, make sure to back it up and make sure that you understand how to restore the registry if a problem occurs. For information about how to back up, restore, and edit the registry, click the following article number to view the article in the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q256986 Description of the Microsoft Windows Registry
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you send plain text from an Outlook client that has an Exchange Server as
	the backend with the Internet Mail Service configured to send plain text or
	HTML, the Internet Mail Service overrides the user's choice, and sends both
	plain text and HTML. When MCI Mail or other plain text mail readers receive a
	message as MIME/multipart/alternative, the recipient gets one e-mail message
	with plain text at the top followed by the same message embedded in HTML tags.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	The Internet Mail Service doesn't get the sender's option in the message. As a
	result it, sends both the plain text and the HTML.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	To resolve this problem, obtain the latest service pack for Exchange Server
	version 5.5. For additional information, please see the following article in the
	Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q191014 XGEN: How to Obtain the latest Exchange Server 5.5 Service Pack
	
	The English version of this fix should have the following file attributes or
	later:
	
	Component: Internet Mail Service
	
	+---------------------------+
	| File name    | Version    | 
	+---------------------------+
	| Gapi32.dll   | 5.5.2571.0 | 
	+---------------------------+
	| Imcmsg.dll   | 5.5.2571.0 | 
	+---------------------------+
	| Mdbmsg.dll   | 5.5.2571.0 | 
	+---------------------------+
	| Msexcimc.exe | 5.5.2571.0 | 
	+---------------------------+
	| Store.exe    | 5.5.2571.0 | 
	+---------------------------+
	
	This hotfix has been posted to the following Internet location as Psp2imca.zip
	and Psp2imci.zip:
	
	  ftp://ftp.microsoft.com/bussys/exchange/exchange-public/fixes/Eng/Exchg5.5/PostSP2/imc-fix
	
	
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	
	In addition to the new files noted above and the client-side updates, the
	following registry changes must be made to enable this functionality. To make
	the registry changes, perform the following steps:
	
	WARNING: If you use Registry Editor incorrectly, you may cause serious problems
	that may require you to reinstall your operating system. Microsoft cannot
	guarantee that you can solve problems that result from using Registry Editor
	incorrectly. Use Registry Editor at your own risk.
	
	1. Stop the Microsoft Exchange Internet Mail Service and the Microsoft Exchange
	  Information Store service.
	
	2. Apply the fixed files noted above.
	
	3. Start Registry Editor (Regedt32.exe)
	
	4. Go to the following location in the registry:
	
	  HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Services\MSExchangeIMC\Parameters
	
	5. On the Edit menu, click Add Value.
	
	  Value Name: SendPlainTextAsIs
	  Data Type: REG_DWORD
	  Value: 0x0, 0x1
	  Default: 0x0 (not in registry by default)
	
	After this key is set, all plain text mail generated by Outlook will be sent out
	as plain text without any HTML tags.
	
	6. Click OK, and quit Registry Editor.
	
	7. Restart the Microsoft Exchange Information Store service and Microsoft
	  Exchange Internet Mail Service.
	
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a problem in Microsoft Exchange Server
	version 5.5. This problem was first corrected in Exchange Server 5.5 Service
	Pack 3.
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : exc55 EXC55SP3Fix 
	Technology        : kbExchangeSearch kbExchange550 kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : winnt:5.5
	Issue type        : kbbug
	Solution Type     : kbfix
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
