---
layout: page
title: "Q158262: SAMPLE: Custom AppWizard for the DAO SDK/dbDao Classes"
permalink: kb/158/Q158262/
---

## Q158262: SAMPLE: Custom AppWizard for the DAO SDK/dbDao Classes

	Article: Q158262
	Product(s): Microsoft C Compiler
	Version(s): winnt:4.0,4.1,4.2
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbfile kbProgramming kbSample kbtool kbDAOsearch kbDatabase kbMFC kbVC
	Last Modified: 04-AUG-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- The DAO SDK, included with:
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Editions, versions 4.0, 4.1 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Enterprise Edition, version 4.2 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Professional Edition, version 4.2 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	Dbdaoawx.exe contains the source and implementation of two Custom AppWizards for
	creating MFC-based DLLs or EXE applications that utilize the DAO SDK. The DAO
	SDK is shipped with Visual C++ and is separate from the MFC DAO classes. This
	sample provides AppWizard support for the DAO SDK, which otherwise would not
	have any.
	
	The following file is available for download from the Microsoft Download Center:
	
	  Dbdaoawx.exe
	  (http://download.microsoft.com/download/platformsdk/sample/1/NT4/EN-US/Dbdaoawx.exe)
	
	For additional information about how to download Microsoft Support files, click
	the article number below to view the article in the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q119591 How to Obtain Microsoft Support Files from Online Services
	
	Microsoft used the most current virus detection software available on the date of
	posting to scan this file for viruses. Once posted, the file is housed on secure
	servers that prevent any unauthorized changes to the file.
	
	NOTE: Use the -d option when running Dbdaoawx.exe to decompress the file and
	recreate the proper directory structure.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Details on usage of the dbDao Custom AppWizards can be found in the file
	USEAGE.TXT, which covers the following topics:
	
	- Compiling the dbDao Custom AppWizards.
	
	- Using the dbDao Custom AppWizards.
	
	- What Do You Get in the dbDao Custom AppWizards?
	
	- What Gets Generated by the Custom AppWizards.
	
	- Modifying the dbDao Custom AppWizards.
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	"Creating Custom AppWizards" in the Visual C++ 4.X Books-On-Line
	
	For more information, please see the following articles in the Microsoft
	Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q147629 PRB: Problems If ODBC or DAO in DLL's InitInstance or DLLMain
	
	  Q149392 How To Use the DAO SDK dbDao Classes with Visual C++ 4.x
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbfile kbProgramming kbSample kbtool kbDAOsearch kbDatabase kbMFC kbVC 
	Technology        : kbAudDeveloper kbDAOsearch kbSDKDAOSearch kbSDKSearch
	Version           : winnt:4.0,4.1,4.2
	
	=============================================================================
	
