---
layout: page
title: "Q141455: Problems Installing Visio Technical 4.0 from CD-ROM"
permalink: /kb/141/Q141455/
---

## Q141455: Problems Installing Visio Technical 4.0 from CD-ROM

	Article: Q141455
	Product(s): Microsoft Windows 95.x Retail Product
	Version(s): 95
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): win95 appscomp kbAppCompatibility
	Last Modified: 28-JUL-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Windows 95 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you try to install Visio Technical version 4.0, standard or Business
	Edition, in Windows 95, you may receive the following error message:
	
	  Setup Has Encountered a Problem Please report File='COMMON\LIST1.C' Line =
	  1052 To Microsoft Product Support Services Report.
	
	Note that this error message is generated by the Visio Technical Setup program,
	not by Windows 95.
	
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	According to Visio Technical Support, the error occurs because the CD-ROM drive
	is using real mode drivers.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	To work around this problem, use any one of the following methods:
	
	- Install protected-mode drivers for the CD-ROM drive if protected- mode
	  drivers are available.
	
	- Copy the Install folder from the Visio Technical CD-ROM to a folder on a
	  local or network drive and then run Setup.exe from that folder. This method
	  bypasses the CD-ROM drive altogether and should result in a successful
	  installation. After Setup is finished, delete the Install folder from the
	  local or network drive.
	
	- The Visio Technical 4.0 package may contain both a CD-ROM and floppy disks.
	  If floppy disks are included, run Setup from the floppy disks.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The third-party product discussed in this article is manufactured by a vendor
	independent of Microsoft; we make no warranty, implied or otherwise, regarding
	this product's performance or reliability.
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : win95 appscomp kbAppCompatibility 
	Technology        : kbWin95search kbZNotKeyword3
	Version           : 95
	
	=============================================================================
	
