---
layout: page
title: "Q256094: Explorer.exe May Generate an &quot;Access Violation&quot; Error Message"
permalink: /kb/256/Q256094/
---

## Q256094: Explorer.exe May Generate an &quot;Access Violation&quot; Error Message

{% raw %}

	Article: Q256094
	Product(s): Microsoft Windows NT
	Version(s): winnt:4.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbWinNT400PreSP7Fix
	Last Modified: 08-MAY-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Windows NT Server version 4.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	An access violation may be generated in the Explorer.exe process.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	The access violation is actually generated by Ole32.dll when a 0 (zero) is
	passed to a function that does not expect a 0 value.
	
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	A supported fix is now available from Microsoft, but it is only intended to
	correct the problem that is described in this article. Apply it only to
	computers that are experiencing this specific problem. This fix may receive
	additional testing. Therefore, if you are not severely affected by this problem,
	Microsoft recommends that you wait for the next Windows NT 4.0 service pack that
	contains this fix.
	
	To resolve this problem immediately, contact Microsoft Product Support Services
	to obtain the fix. For a complete list of Microsoft Product Support Services
	phone numbers and information about support costs, visit the following Microsoft
	Web site:
	
	  http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=fh;EN-US;CNTACTMS
	
	NOTE: In special cases, charges that are ordinarily incurred for support calls
	may be canceled if a Microsoft Support Professional determines that a specific
	update will resolve your problem. The typical support costs will apply to
	additional support questions and issues that do not qualify for the specific
	update in question.
	
	The English version of this fix should have the following file attributes or
	later:
	
	  Date      Time                 Size    File name     Platform
	  -------------------------------------------------------------
	  02/23/00  06:33p               701,200 Ole32.dll     x86
	  02/23/00  06:33p             1,239,312 Ole32.dll     Alpha
	
	
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed that this is a problem in the Microsoft products that
	are listed at the beginning of this article.
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbWinNT400PreSP7Fix 
	Technology        : kbWinNTsearch kbWinNT400search kbWinNTSsearch kbWinNTS400search kbWinNTS400
	Version           : winnt:4.0
	Hardware          : ALPHA x86
	Issue type        : kbbug
	Solution Type     : kbfix
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
