---
layout: page
title: "Q89615: Hauppauge Win/TV and Windows"
permalink: kb/089/Q89615/
---

## Q89615: Hauppauge Win/TV and Windows

	Article: Q89615
	Product(s): Microsoft Windows 95.x Retail Product
	Version(s): WINDOWS:3.0,3.0a,3.1,3.11
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 28-SEP-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Windows versions 3.0, 3.0a, 3.1, 3.11 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you use the Hauppauge Win/TV video system with Windows, you may notice the
	following limitations:
	
	- The color magenta (purple with red) does not display correctly. This is a
	  limitation of the Hauppauge video, and may apply to other television video
	  boards also.
	
	- You may experience problems loading and saving still-frame pictures.
	
	- You may experience difficulty using WinTV with Microsoft Video for Windows.
	
	In addition, the 16,000,000 color mode that some video adapters support will not
	work with WinTV.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Win/TV is a combination hardware/software system that allows Windows users to
	view full-motion video and television in a resizable window. Win/TV also allows
	Windows users to capture screens and save them in a variety of graphic file
	formats (for example, BMP, GIF, PCX, MMP).
	
	In order to use Microsoft Video for Windows, the WinTV card and software must be
	revision 'D' or later. To upgrade the card, you must return it to the factory so
	that the IRQ can be reset to IRQ 15.
	
	Magenta Displays Incorrectly
	----------------------------
	
	The magenta display problem occurs because the Win/TV system uses a technique
	called "color keying" to mix the computer's standard video signal with a
	television signal generated by the Win/TV hardware.
	
	The color keying process does not actually send the television signal through
	Windows. Rather, the Win/TV software fills its on-screen window (the display
	area) with a solid block of magenta and sends the location of the display area
	to the Win/TV hardware.
	
	When the video signal is sent out from the computer's video adapter, the Win/TV
	hardware superimposes its television signal over any occurrence of magenta that
	lies within the bounds of the display area. Under normal circumstances, this
	allows other windows to be displayed on top of the Win/TV window.
	
	Problems Loading/Saving Still-Frame Pictures
	--------------------------------------------
	
	If a computer has 16 megabytes (MB) of RAM installed, the user should upgrade to
	WinTV version 2.03 or later. This solves the problem of loading and saving
	still-frame pictures. The current versions of WinTV can save and load
	still-frame pictures while Windows is in 386 enhanced mode only. This is by
	design.
	
	Using WinTV with Microsoft Video for Windows
	--------------------------------------------
	
	To use Microsoft Video for Windows, the WinTV card and software must be revision
	'D' or later. To upgrade the card, you must return it to the factory so that the
	IRQ can be reset to IRQ 15.
	
	The Hauppauge Win/TV product included here is manufactured by a vendor
	independent of Microsoft; we make no warranty, implied or otherwise, regarding
	this product's performance or reliability.
	
	Win/TV Installation and Reference Manual, pages 1-1 through 1-2
	
	Additional query words: 3.00 3.00a 3.10 3.11 video display color hauppauge tv vga win31 television 3rdparty
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbWin3xSearch kbZNotKeyword3 kbWin300 kbWin300a kbWin310 kbWin311
	Version           : WINDOWS:3.0,3.0a,3.1,3.11
	
	=============================================================================
	
