---
layout: page
title: "Q118802: FILE: Fw1022.exe Demonstrates Using FoxPro for Windows Wizards"
permalink: /kb/118/Q118802/
---

## Q118802: FILE: Fw1022.exe Demonstrates Using FoxPro for Windows Wizards

	Article: Q118802
	Product(s): Microsoft FoxPro
	Version(s): WINDOWS:2.6,3.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 11-FEB-2000
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual FoxPro for Windows, version 3.0 
	- Microsoft FoxPro for Windows, version 2.6 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	Fw1022.exe is a file that contains an Application Note entitled "Introduction to
	Using FoxPro Wizards," which describes how to use the FoxPro wizards to create a
	basic application.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The following file is available for download from the Microsoft Software
	Library:
	
	  ~ Fw1022.exe
	  (http://support.microsoft.com/download/support/mslfiles/Fw1022.exe)
	
	For more information about downloading files from the Microsoft Software Library,
	please see the following article in the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q119591 How to Obtain Microsoft Support Files from Online Services
	
	
	INTRODUCTION TO FW1022
	
	The FoxPro wizards are specifically designed to guide new users through creating
	basic, flat-file (single table) application modules. These modules are tables,
	screens, queries, and reports. Flat files are nonrelational databases. The
	wizards do not support relational database features by default.
	
	The modules generated by the wizards can be modified with FoxPro's power tools to
	support one-to-one and one-to-many relationships. Doing so, however, requires
	fairly extensive knowledge of Xbase programming, and will not be discussed in
	this document. Instead, this document presents a step-by-step process for
	creating a complete flat-file application.
	
	Additional query words: VFoxWin FoxWin appnote softlib
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbVFPsearch kbAudDeveloper kbFoxproSearch kbFoxPro260 kbVFP300
	Version           : WINDOWS:2.6,3.0
	
	=============================================================================
	
