---
layout: page
title: "Q142291: BUG: Error '80080005' with 16-Bit Remote Automation Clients"
permalink: /kb/142/Q142291/
---

## Q142291: BUG: Error '80080005' with 16-Bit Remote Automation Clients

	Article: Q142291
	Product(s): Microsoft Visual Basic for Windows
	Version(s): WINDOWS:4.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbbuglist
	Last Modified: 18-FEB-2000
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Enterprise Edition, 16-bit, for Windows, version 4.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	Accessing a property or method of a dependent and remotely served object from a
	16-bit client may cause error '429' or error '-2146959355' (hex 80080005). This
	error occurs on machines on which remote automation was set up by installing
	Visual Basic 4.0, 16-bit. If the Setup Wizard is used to generate a setup
	program for the 16-bit client, the problem does not occur.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	Visual Basic 4.0, 16-bit, does not register Autprx16.dll correctly during
	installation. This DLL is used by 16-bit clients running on 32-bit operating
	systems. Setup programs generated by the Setup Wizard perform the registration
	successfully. In addition, 16-bit clients running on a 16-bit operating system
	use Autprx.dll and do not have this problem, because the Visual Basic 4.0
	installation correctly registers Autprx.dll.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a issue in the products listed above. We are
	researching the problem and will post more information in the Knowledge Base as
	it becomes available.
	
	WORKAROUND
	==========
	
	To enable dependent object access for 16-bit clients, manually register
	Autprx16.dll. The program Regsvr.exe, which is included with Visual Basic (in
	the Tools\PSS subdirectory), can be used to accomplish this.
	
	To register the DLL, use this command line:
	
	  regsvr.exe autprx16.dll
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Steps To Reproduce
	------------------
	
	1. Create and compile an OLE server that exposes an externally creatable object
	  that contains dependent object(s). The Invoice server example that is
	  outlined starting on page 32 of the Creating OLE Servers section of the
	  Professional Features Guide demonstrates the problem.
	
	
	2. Create a client program that uses the OLE server written in step 1. The code
	  at the bottom of page 34 of the Creating OLE Servers section creates a new
	  Invoice object and executes code that will reproduce the problem.
	
	3. Remote your server by placing it on a separate machine and using the supplied
	  tools (RacMan, CliReg) to configure your server and client for remote
	  automation.
	
	4. Execute a line of code that accesses a property or method of a dependent
	  object. The appropriate error detailed above will be displayed. Registering
	  Autprx16.dll should fix the problem.
	
	Additional query words: 4.0 vb4win vb416
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  kbbuglist
	Technology        : kbVBSearch kbAudDeveloper kbVB400Search kbVB400 kbVB16bitSearch
	Version           : WINDOWS:4.0
	Issue type        : kbbug
	
	=============================================================================
	
