---
layout: page
title: "Q156732: HOWTO: Print from the Microsoft WebBrowser Control"
permalink: /kb/156/Q156732/
---

## Q156732: HOWTO: Print from the Microsoft WebBrowser Control

{% raw %}

	Article: Q156732
	Product(s): Microsoft C Compiler
	Version(s): 4.0,4.01,5.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbole kbprint kbIE300 kbIE301 kbIE400 kbie401 kbMFC kbPrinting kbVC kbIE302 kbhowto
	Last Modified: 07-SEP-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Enterprise Edition, version 5.0 
	- Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Professional Edition, version 5.0 
	- Microsoft Internet Explorer (Programming) versions 4.0, 4.01 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	The Web Browser component of Internet Explorer 3.x and 4.x does not support a
	Print method. You can still print the contents of the Web Browser control using
	one of these methods:
	
	- Set focus to the Web Browser control and send a key combination of CTRL+P.
	
	  -or-
	
	- Call the GetDocument() method that returns an IDispatch*. Using the
	  IDispatch*, call QueryInterface() on IID_IOleCommandTarget. With the object
	  pointer returned, call Exec(NULL, OLECMDID_PRINT,0, NULL,NULL).
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The following code can be used to cause the Web Browser control to print its
	contents. In this example, m_ctlWebBrowser is an instance of the wrapper class
	generated by Class Wizard for the control. m_ctlWebBrowser is contained in a
	dialog and initialized in the OnInitDialog function. A Print button on the
	dialog is wired to an OnPrint function. The Print button is enabled in response
	to the NavigateComplete event of the Web Browser control.
	
	
	Sample Code
	-----------
	
	  BOOL CAboutDlg::OnInitDialog()
	     {
	         CDialog::OnInitDialog();
	
	         m_ctlWebBrowser.Navigate(_T("http://www.microsoft.com"),
	                                  NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL);
	         return TRUE;
	     }
	     
	
	First Method
	------------
	
	     
	   void CAboutDlg::OnPrint()
	     {
	         CWnd* pWnd = GetFocus ();
	
	         m_ctlWebBrowser.SetFocus ();
	         // send Ctrl-P
	         keybd_event (VK_CONTROL, 0, 0, 0);
	         keybd_event ('P', 0, 0, 0);
	
	         // set focus to control that previously had focus
	         if (pWnd);
	             pWnd->SetFocus ();
	     }
	
	Second Method
	-------------
	
	     // DOCOBJ.H comes with the Internet Client SDK and is installed by
	     // default in the "\INetSDK\Include" directory
	     #include <docobj.h>
	
	     void CAboutDlg::OnPrint()
	     {
	         LPDISPATCH lpDispatch = NULL;
	         LPOLECOMMANDTARGET lpOleCommandTarget = NULL;
	
	         lpDispatch = m_ctlWebBrowser.GetDocument();
	         ASSERT(lpDispatch);
	
	         lpDispatch->QueryInterface(IID_IOleCommandTarget,
	                                    (void**)&lpOleCommandTarget);
	         ASSERT(lpOleCommandTarget);
	
	         lpDispatch->Release();
	
	         // print contents of web browser control
	         lpOleCommandTarget->Exec(NULL, OLECMDID_PRINT, 0, NULL,NULL);
	
	         lpOleCommandTarget->Release();
	     }
	   
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	Internet Client SDK Online documentation.
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbole kbprint kbIE300 kbIE301 kbIE400 kbie401 kbMFC kbPrinting kbVC kbIE302 kbhowto 
	Technology        : kbVCsearch kbIEsearch kbAudDeveloper kbSDKIESearch kbSDKIE400 kbSDKIE401 kbVC500 kbVC32bitSearch kbVC500Search
	Version           : :4.0,4.01,5.0
	Issue type        : kbhowto
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
