---
layout: page
title: "Q129571: PRB: Formset.LOAD Is Not the First Event to Fire"
permalink: /kb/129/Q129571/
---

## Q129571: PRB: Formset.LOAD Is Not the First Event to Fire

	Article: Q129571
	Product(s): Microsoft FoxPro
	Version(s): WINDOWS:3.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 12-FEB-2000
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual FoxPro for Windows, version 3.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When a form set contains a Data Environment, the BeforeOpenTables event and the
	OpenTables method of the Data Environment are triggered before the Load event of
	the form set. This article explains the reason behind this implementation and
	offers a workaround if you want the Load event to execute before the tables are
	opened.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	The Load event of a form set usually sets the environment of a form. In
	particular, it can be used to bind data to controls on a form. Therefore, in
	most cases, tables and views must be loaded before the LOAD event of a form set
	is executed. Thus, the OpenTables method of the data environment is, by default,
	called before the Load event of the form set is executed.
	
	WORKAROUND
	==========
	
	If you do not want the tables or views to be opened when the Load event of a
	form set is executed, set the AutoOpenTables property of the form to .F.. You
	can then call the OpenTables method of the data environment to open the tables
	automatically. For example, use the following command in any method of the
	form:
	
	     THISFORMSET.DataEnvironment.Opentables
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	This behavior is by design.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Following is the sequence of events that are executed when a form set created in
	Visual FoxPro version 3.0 is loaded or unloaded. The order of events might
	differ if the form is converted from a FoxPro version 2.x screen. In this
	example, the form set is named FORMSET1 and contains a form named FORM1 and a
	data environment called DATAENVIRONMENT. This list was generated by executing
	the following code for the following events and methods:
	
	     ACTIVATE SCREEN
	     ?PROGRAM()
	
	     FORMSET1.LOAD
	     .DATAENVIRONMENT.OPENTABLES
	     .DATAENVIRONMENT.BEFOREOPENTABLES
	     FORMSET1.FORM1.LOAD
	     FORMSET1.DATAENVIRONMENT.INIT
	     FORMSET1.FORM1.INIT
	     FORMSET1.INIT
	     FORMSET1.SHOW
	     FORMSET1.ACTIVATE
	     FORMSET1.FORM1.ACTIVATE
	     FORMSET1.FORM1.GOTFOCUS
	     FORMSET1.FORM1.QUERYUNLOAD
	     FORMSET1.DESTROY
	     FORMSET1.FORM1.DESTROY
	     FORMSET1.FORM1.UNLOAD
	     FORMSET1.UNLOAD
	     FORMSET1.DATAENVIRONMENT.CLOSETABLES
	     FORMSET1.DATAENVIRONMENT.AFTERCLOSETABLES
	     FORMSET1.DATAENVIRONMENT.DESTROY
	
	NOTE: The OPENTABLES method calls the BEFOREPOPENTABLES event before the tables
	are actually opened. However, the code in the event handler is executed before
	the tables are opened, and this is the reason why OPENTABLES prints before
	BEFOREOPENTABLES prints.
	
	For more information about the sequence of events that are triggered when a form
	runs, execute the sample program called EVENTS.SCX located in the
	SAMPLES\CONTROLS\EVENTS directory.
	
	Additional query words: VFoxWin
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbVFPsearch kbAudDeveloper kbVFP300
	Version           : WINDOWS:3.0
	
	=============================================================================
	
