---
layout: page
title: "Q153746: Mac Multimedia: Beta Version of Sound Manager Causes Problems"
permalink: /kb/153/Q153746/
---

## Q153746: Mac Multimedia: Beta Version of Sound Manager Causes Problems

	Article: Q153746
	Product(s): Microsoft Home Multimedia Titles
	Version(s): 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996-1997 editions,1994 edition,1995 edition; MACINTOSH:
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 18-JUL-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Bookshelf for the Macintosh 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996-1997 editions 
	- Microsoft Cinemania for Macintosh, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997 editions 
	- Microsoft Encarta 1994 The Complete Multimedia Encyclopedia 
	- Microsoft Encarta 95 The Complete Interactive Multimedia Encyclopedia for Macintosh 
	- Microsoft Encarta 96 Encyclopedia for Macintosh 
	- Microsoft Encarta 97 Encyclopedia for Macintosh 
	- Microsoft Music Central for the Macintosh, 1996, 1997 editions 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you attempt to start any of the programs listed at the top of this article
	on a computer running a system with a beta version of Sound Manager, a warning
	message appears. Then, the program may quit or run without audio capability.
	
	At best, audio won't play, either in audio clips or QuickTime movies. At worst,
	the program won't run, and there will be a warning dialog. A list of the
	specific error messages generated by the various applications is listed below.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	Microsoft Bookshelf, Cinemania, Encarta, and Music Central all check the version
	number of Sound Manager and return an error message or disable sounds if
	anything other than a release version of Sound Manager is running.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	The short-term solution to the error message problem is to perform a custom
	installation of Sound Manager from the program compact disc. This replaces any
	existing Sound Manager extension present (regardless of the version number) with
	the version of Sound Manager included on the compact disc, eliminating the
	problem. A manual installation might be necessary with programs where the
	installer does not replace the beta Sound Manager. Make sure you check the
	version of Sound Manager after you complete a custom installation procedure.
	
	The long-term solution is to wait until the new Sound Manager beta program
	completes and a final product is released. After installing the release version
	of Sound Manager, these products should work properly.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The following list includes the error messages received and the behavior that
	occurs when you try to run the application with the beta version of Sound
	Manager:
	
	Bookshelf 1996-97 Edition
	-------------------------
	
	"Microsoft Bookshelf requires that Sound Manager 3.0 or later is installed.
	Currently, no audio (including pronunciations, spoken quotations, or anthems)
	will play. Please run the Bookshelf Installer from your Compact Disc."
	
	Result: The program functions properly except for missing audio.
	
	Cinemania 97
	------------
	
	"This machine is not properly configured to play audio clips. This problem must
	be fixed before you can run Cinemania 97." Result: The application launches all
	the way to the content window, but user is forced to quit.
	
	Music Central 97
	----------------
	
	"This machine is not properly configured to play audio clips. This problem must
	be fixed before you can run Music Central 97." Result: The application launches
	all the way to the content window, but user is forced to quit.
	
	Encarta 96
	----------
	
	No error message on launch.
	
	Result: All media controllers are disabled (grayed out).
	
	Cinemania 96
	------------
	
	"Cinemania is unable to proceed due to an unknown error. To correct the problem,
	try restarting Cinemania."
	
	Result: User is forced to quit the program.
	
	Music Central 96
	----------------
	
	"Music Central is unable to proceed due to an unknown error. To correct the
	problem, try restarting Music Central."
	
	Result: User is forced to quit the program.
	
	Bookshelf 95
	------------
	
	"Microsoft Bookshelf requires that Sound Manager 3.0 is installed. Currently, no
	audio (including pronunciations, spoken quotations, or anthems) will play.
	Please run the Bookshelf '95 Installer from your Compact Disc."
	
	Result: The program functions properly except for missing audio.
	
	Encarta 95
	----------
	
	No error message on launch.
	
	Result: "Couldn't open multimedia window" message appears during use of the Media
	Gallery. Videos and audio are non-functional.
	
	Additional Notes
	----------------
	
	The Bookshelf Installer script replaces Sound Manager without questioning version
	numbers during a custom installation. This is the only program from the list at
	top of this article where the installer has been tested to confirm replacement
	of the beta Sound Manager. After you perform a custom installation, check the
	version of Sound Manager (located in the Extensions folder in the System Folder)
	to make sure the beta version was replaced. If it has not, you should manually
	copy the Sound Manager.
	
	The newest released versions of QuickTime and Sound Manager are available on
	Apple's web sites, located at:
	
	  http://www.apple.com/quicktime
	
	The third-party products discussed here are manufactured by vendors independent
	of Microsoft; we make no warranty, implied or otherwise, regarding these
	products' performance or reliability.
	
	Additional query words: 94 95 96 97 96-97 multi media multimedia multi- mmtitles Quicktime SoundManager sound manager 2.5 3.0 beta
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbHWMAC kbOSMAC kbHomeProdSearch kbHomeMMsearch kbEncartaSearch kbBookshelfSearch kbEncartaEncycSearch kbCineManiaSearch kbMusicCentralMacSearch kbEncartaEnCyc1994 kbEncartaEnCyc1995Mac kbEncartaEnCyc1996Mac kbEncartaEnCyc1997Mac kbMusicCentralMac1996
	Version           : :1993, 1994, 1995, 1996-1997 editions,1994 edition,1995 edition; MACINTOSH:
	
	=============================================================================
	
