---
layout: page
title: "Q220643: PRB: Windows CE 2.10 and 2.11 Configurations Are Not Available"
permalink: kb/220/Q220643/
---

## Q220643: PRB: Windows CE 2.10 and 2.11 Configurations Are Not Available

	Article: Q220643
	Product(s): Microsoft C Compiler
	Version(s): WINDOWS:6.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbsetup kbide kbVC600 kbOSWinCE210 kbOSWinCE211
	Last Modified: 05-MAY-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Windows CE Toolkit for Visual C++ 6.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	After creating a Windows CE project, Handheld PC version 2.0 and/or Palm-size PC
	version 2.01 are available as Windows CE configurations, but no configurations
	are available for Windows CE versions 2.1 and 2.11. The product description
	states that these operating systems are supported.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	To develop for a specific Windows CE platform requires that the corresponding
	Windows CE Platform SDK be installed. The Windows CE Toolkit for Visual C++ 6.0
	includes the Platform SDK for Handheld PC and Palm-size PC.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	Check the Microsoft Windows CE Web site downloads section for the latest Windows
	CE Platform SDK updates: http://www.microsoft.com/windowsce
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	This behavior is by design.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	When building Windows CE applications using the Windows CE Toolkit for Visual
	C++, the following considerations must be made when targeting a device:
	
	- CPU: This dictates the type of machine code that must be generated by the
	  compiler. Examples of processors are MIPS, SH3, SH4, ARM, and x86.
	
	- Operating System Version: The behavior of the core operating system
	  components may change with each version of Windows CE operating system. As a
	  result, each version of the operating system has its own build tools
	  (compiler, linker, remote tools, and so on). Examples of operating system
	  versions are Windows CE versions 1.0, 1.01, 2.0, 2.01, 2.1, and 2.11.
	
	- Platform: Each device that uses Windows CE also uses different configurations
	  of the core Windows CE operating system components. For example, some devices
	  have a display, keyboard, and mouse, while other devices may not have any
	  form of user input. The platform signifies a particular configuration of
	  components. Current standard platforms are:
	
	   - Handheld PC
	
	   - Palm-size PC
	
	   - Auto PC
	
	   - Handheld PC Professional Edition
	
	   - Color Palm-size PC
	
	  To develop applications, the development environment must have some way of
	  knowing which Windows CE operating system components are available on the
	  particular platform being targeted. This is accomplished by installing a
	  Windows CE Platform SDK. The SDK provides the headers, libraries, and
	  additional tools (for example, emulation and samples) necessary for
	  development on the respective platform.
	
	  In the Windows CE Toolkit for Visual C++ 6.0, the available Windows CE
	  platforms can be viewed in a project by clicking Select Active WCE
	  Configuration on the Build menu of Developer Studio. The toolkit ships with
	  Platform SDKs for only the Handheld PC and Palm-size PC.
	
	Additional query words: Jupiter Jornada
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbsetup kbide kbVC600 kbOSWinCE210 kbOSWinCE211 
	Technology        : kbVCsearch kbAudDeveloper kbWinCETKVCSearch kbWinCESearch kbWinCETK600VC
	Version           : WINDOWS:6.0
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	
