---
layout: page
title: "Q172892: FIX: MSDEV Crashes If Same PDB Name Used for Compiler and Linker"
permalink: /kb/172/Q172892/
---

## Q172892: FIX: MSDEV Crashes If Same PDB Name Used for Compiler and Linker

{% raw %}

	Article: Q172892
	Product(s): Microsoft C Compiler
	Version(s): winnt:5.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbDebug kbide kbVC500bug kbVC600fix
	Last Modified: 06-MAY-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- The Integrated Debugger, used with:
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Enterprise Edition, version 5.0 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Professional Edition, version 5.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When the pdb file generated by the compiler has the same name as the pdb file
	generated by the linker, and the /pdbtype:sept option is set, Developer Studio
	may crash if you select Debug.StepInto. It may also crash if you set a
	breakpoint and select Debug.Go.
	
	Following are examples of possible error messages:
	
	  MSDEV caused a stack fault in module MSPDB50.DLL at 015f:1030493b.
	
	  -or-
	
	  MSDEV.EXE - Application error. The exception unknown software exception
	  (0xc00000fd) occurred in the application at location 0x1030837b.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	The /pdbtype:sept linker option specifies that the debug information generated
	by the compiler and the linker be kept in separate pdb files. Because the same
	pdb file name is used, the linker overwrites the pdb file generated by the
	compiler without copying the compiler debug info as well. When the debugger
	attempts to use this file it goes into infinite recursion and eventually the
	stack overflows and causes Developer Studio to crash.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	Use one of the following workarounds:
	
	- Turn off /pdbtype:sept. To do this, on the Project menu, click Options, click
	  the Link tab, select the Debug category, and clear the Separate types check
	  box.
	
	- Do not use the same pdb file name for linker and compiler output.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a bug in the Microsoft products listed at the
	beginning of this article. This problem was corrected in Visual C++ version 6.0
	for Windows.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	NOTE: /pdbtype:sept is the default in a Developer Studio project.
	
	Steps to Reproduce Behavior
	---------------------------
	
	1. Create a simple "Hello World" console application project with the name
	  Hello.
	
	2. On the Project menu, click Settings, and then click the C++ tab.
	
	3. In the Project Options dialog box, look for the /Fd option and change the
	  following
	
	  /Fd"Debug/"
	
	  to the following:
	
	  /Fd"Debug/Hello.pdb"
	
	4. Build the project.
	
	5. Click Debug, click Stepinto, and then MSDEV will crash.
	
	6. On the Project menu, click Settings, and then click the Link tab.
	
	7. Select the Debug category, and clear the Separate Types check box.
	
	8. Rebuild all and try to debug. A crash will not occur.
	
	Additional query words: access violation AV crash GPF IPF fault
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbDebug kbide kbVC500bug kbVC600fix 
	Technology        : kbVCsearch kbAudDeveloper kbIntegratedDebugger
	Version           : winnt:5.0
	Issue type        : kbbug
	Solution Type     : kbfix
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
