---
layout: page
title: "Q191001: BUG: PDW May Handle .REG Files Incorrectly"
permalink: /kb/191/Q191001/
---

## Q191001: BUG: PDW May Handle .REG Files Incorrectly

{% raw %}

	Article: Q191001
	Product(s): Microsoft Visual Basic for Windows
	Version(s): 6.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbwizard kbAppSetup kbRegistry kbVBp kbVBp600bug kbGrpDSVB kbDSupport
	Last Modified: 11-JAN-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Professional Edition for Windows, version 6.0 
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Enterprise Edition for Windows, version 6.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When installing an application using a setup program generated by the Package
	and Deployment Wizard (PDW), unwanted information may be added to the registry
	if a .Reg file is included in the distribution set.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	When creating a distribution set with the Package and Deployment Wizard, there
	is an option to add files in addition to those files already in the Visual Basic
	project.
	
	If a .REG file is added, a dialog is shown asking if the .REG file should be
	copied to the destination computer and if it should be used to update the
	registry. The dialog indicates that neither, one, or both of the options can be
	used.
	
	If "No" is selected for both of these options, the PDW will default to "No" for
	Copy and "Yes" for "Update Registry." Then, when the setup program is run, the
	registry will be updated with the information in the .REG file.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	If a .REG file is not to be copied to the target machine nor used to update the
	registry, do not include it in the distribution set or give the file an
	extension other than .REG.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a bug in the Microsoft products listed at the
	beginning of this article. We are researching this bug and will post new
	information here in the Microsoft Knowledge Base as it becomes available.
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	Online Help for Microsoft Visual Basic
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbwizard kbAppSetup kbRegistry kbVBp kbVBp600bug kbGrpDSVB kbDSupport 
	Technology        : kbVBSearch kbAudDeveloper kbZNotKeyword6 kbZNotKeyword2 kbVB600Search kbVBA600 kbVB600
	Version           : :6.0
	Issue type        : kbbug
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
