---
layout: page
title: "Q120597: Fp1023.exe Describes Using FoxPro for MS-DOS Wizards"
permalink: /kb/120/Q120597/
---

## Q120597: Fp1023.exe Describes Using FoxPro for MS-DOS Wizards

{% raw %}

	Article: Q120597
	Product(s): Microsoft FoxPro
	Version(s): 2.6
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbfile kbwizard kbDSupport
	Last Modified: 06-FEB-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft FoxPro for MS-DOS, version 2.6 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	Fp1023.exe is a file that contains an Application Note describing how to use the
	FoxPro wizards to create a basic application.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The following files are available for download from the Microsoft Download
	Center:
	
	  Fp1023.exe
	  (http://download.microsoft.com/download/fox26dos/AppNote/1/DOS/EN-US/fpd_dk.exe)
	
	For additional information about how to download Microsoft Support files, click
	the article number below to view the article in the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q119591 How to Obtain Microsoft Support Files from Online Services
	
	Microsoft used the most current virus detection software available on the date of
	posting to scan this file for viruses. Once posted, the file is housed on secure
	servers that prevent any unauthorized changes to the file.
	
	INTRODUCTION TO FP1023
	----------------------
	
	The FoxPro wizards are specifically designed to guide new users through creating
	basic, flat-file (single table) application modules. These modules are tables,
	screens, queries, and reports. Flat files are nonrelational databases. The
	wizards do not support relational database features by default.
	
	The modules generated by the wizards can be modified with FoxPro's power tools to
	support one-to-one and one-to-many relationships. Doing so, however, requires
	fairly extensive knowledge of Xbase programming, and will not be discussed in
	this document. Instead, this document presents a step-by-step process for
	creating a complete flat-file application.
	
	Additional query words: fpd_dk FoxDos appnote softlib kbfile
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbfile kbwizard kbDSupport 
	Technology        : kbAudDeveloper kbFoxproSearch kbZNotKeyword3 kbFoxPro260DOS
	Version           : :2.6
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
