---
layout: page
title: "Q154678: FP: Error Using Publish Web Command Copying Web Remotely"
permalink: /kb/154/Q154678/
---

## Q154678: FP: Error Using Publish Web Command Copying Web Remotely

{% raw %}

	Article: Q154678
	Product(s): Word Front Page
	Version(s): 1.1
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbusage kbdta
	Last Modified: 01-FEB-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft FrontPage 97 for Windows with Bonus Pack 
	- Microsoft FrontPage for Windows 1.1 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	For a Microsoft FrontPage 2000 version of this article, see Q205601.
	
	For a Microsoft FrontPage 98 version of this article, see Q194274.
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you use the Publish Web command to copy an existing Web to a remote Web
	site, you may receive one of the following error messages:
	
	  An unexpected Web Extender error occurred on the server. Authors- please
	  contact the Webmaster for this server's site. WebMasters- please see the
	  server's logs for more details.
	
	  -or-
	
	  Poorly formed HTTP response.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	When you use the Publish Web command to connect the FrontPage client to a
	server, the Web Server creates a process to serve that request. After the
	client's account is validated, the client uses HyperText Transfer Protocol
	(HTTP) to communicate with Author.exe on your server. Author.exe works as a
	Common Gateway Interface (CGI) script within the process generated by the Web
	server.
	
	Web servers enforce a time-out period on any process in order to protect the
	server from being overloaded. On most servers, this time- out period varies.
	When the connection speed between the client and the server is slow and the size
	of the Web to be transferred is large, the server may stop serving FrontPage
	before the transfer is complete.
	
	NOTE: There have been unconfirmed reports that the first error occurs when you
	attempt to open a Web on the FrontPage Personal Web Server after you install
	FrontPage 97 over FrontPage 1.1. It has been reported that you can resolve this
	problem by removing and reinstalling the FrontPage 97 Server Extensions on
	FrontPage Personal Web Server.
	
	WORKAROUND
	==========
	
	To work around the limitations of the time-out period, use any of the following
	methods:
	
	- Get a faster modem. A 28.8 (28,800 bits per second [bps]) modem is twice as
	  fast as a 14.4 modem.
	
	- Use subwebs instead of the root Web to avoid creating Webs whose transfer
	  speed exceeds the time-out period.
	
	- Create the Web remotely, on your staging server, in order to avoid having to
	  transfer the Web.
	
	- Use the FrontPage Publishing Wizard to transfer your Web, and then
	  recalculate the links on the Web when it reaches the server.
	
	  The FrontPage Publishing Wizard initiates an FTP session to your server and
	  automates the transfer of FrontPage Webs using FTP. FTP is not subject to the
	  same time-out limitations as HTTP and can often move data more reliably. In
	  addition, the Publishing Wizard allows you to transfer only the files that
	  have been changed since the last post, resulting in less data transferred.
	  The FrontPage Publishing Wizard can be set to transfer all files or some
	  files in the Web.
	
	  To obtain the FrontPage Publishing Wizard for FrontPage 97, please see the
	  following Microsoft World Wide Web site:
	
	  http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/release.asp?ReleaseID=22658
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	You can use the following formula to calculate the time-out period
	
	  Seconds to transfer = Web size/modem speed
	
	where "Web size" is the total bits of data that makes up the Web and "modem
	speed" is the speed, in bits per second (bps), that the modem uses to transfer
	data. (For example, 14,400 bps or 28,800 bps.)
	
	  (Web in K * 1024) * (8{Bits} + 4{bits overhead}) = (Web in K * 12288)
	
	The following table shows transfer times in seconds.
	
	                       File Size
	                     500K   1000K   5000K   10000K   20000K
	         --------------------------------------------------
	         14,400 bps   427     854    4267     8534    17067
	         28,800 bps   214     427    2134     4267     8534
	
	NOTE: When you calculate the size of the Web, you must include data in all
	folders in the Web to be copied, not just the static HTML files. In addition,
	note that connection speeds are frequently slower than the maximum speed of the
	modem.
	
	Additional query words: pubwiz directory directories timeout publish postweb11a.exe
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbusage kbdta 
	Technology        : kbFrontPageSearch kbFrontPage1xSearch kbFrontPage97Search kbZNotKeyword3 kbFrontPage110
	Version           : :1.1
	Hardware          : x86
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
