---
layout: page
title: "Q87669: FoxBASE+ Error Messages: F - H"
permalink: kb/087/Q87669/
---

## Q87669: FoxBASE+ Error Messages: F - H

	Article: Q87669
	Product(s): Microsoft Fox Miscellaneous Products
	Version(s): MS-DOS:2.17
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 23-OCT-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft FoxBASE+ for MS-DOS, version 2.17 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	This article reproduces a partial list of FoxBASE+ error messages, from F to H.
	
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Feature not available
	---------------------
	
	An application attempted to use a FoxBASE+ feature that is not supported by the
	version of FoxBASE+ in use. For example, the assembly language interface is
	currently supported only by the MS-DOS version of FoxBASE+.
	
	"Field" phrase not found
	------------------------
	
	A CHANGE statement which does not specify a field list was encountered.
	
	File already exists
	-------------------
	
	Another file by this name exists. This error is usually generated by the SORT or
	RENAME command.
	
	File cannot be locked
	---------------------
	
	(Multi-user only) Execution of a command (for example, PACK, INDEX) which
	requires temporary exclusive use of a database was attempted while the database,
	or a record within it, was locked by another user. The LOCKNDX() function can be
	used to check whether or not the a database can be locked at the current time.
	If the file is available for locking, LOCKNDX() locks it.
	
	File close error
	----------------
	
	An error was returned by the operating system while FoxBASE+ was attempting to
	close a file.
	
	File does not exist
	-------------------
	
	The file being renamed does not exist.
	
	File is in use
	--------------
	
	An attempt was made to open, delete, or rename a file which is currently open.
	
	File not open
	-------------
	
	An attempt was made to read from or write to a file which is not currently open.
	
	File read error
	---------------
	
	An error was returned by the operating system while FoxBASE+ was attempting to
	read a file.
	
	File write error
	----------------
	
	An error was returned by the operating system while FoxBASE+ was attempting to
	write to a file. Most often, this error is the result of an attempt to write to
	a write-protected diskette.
	
	For/while need logical expressions
	----------------------------------
	
	A "for" or "while" clause within a command does not contain a logical
	expression.
	
	From file is empty
	------------------
	
	The "from" file contained zero records when an APPEND command was executed.
	
	Additional query words: Fox Base plus error message
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbAudDeveloper kbFoxproSearch kbFoxBASE217DOS kbFoxBASESearch
	Version           : MS-DOS:2.17
	
	=============================================================================
	
