---
layout: page
title: "Q194321: XADM: Alt 0216 Character Incorrectly Translated in SMTP &amp; X.400"
permalink: kb/194/Q194321/
---

## Q194321: XADM: Alt 0216 Character Incorrectly Translated in SMTP &amp; X.400

	Article: Q194321
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): winnt:5.5,5.5 SP1
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): exc55sp2fix exc55 exc55sp1
	Last Modified: 22-DEC-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, versions 5.5, 5.5 SP1 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you create an Exchange Server mailbox including the alt 0216 character in
	the First or Last name of the mailbox, the SMTP and X.400 proxy address
	automatically generated by Exchange Server contain the character zero (0)
	instead of a capital letter O.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	To resolve this problem, obtain the latest service pack for Exchange Server
	version 5.5. For more information, please see the following article in the
	Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q191014 XGEN: How to Obtain the Latest Exchange Server 5.5 Service Pack
	
	
	The English version of this fix should have the following file attributes or
	later:
	
	  Component: Administrator Program
	
	  File Name      Version
	  -------------------------
	  Inproxy.dll    5.5.2425.0
	  X400prox.dll   5.5.2425.0
	  Pcproxy.dll    5.5.2425.0
	
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a problem in Microsoft Exchange Server
	version 5.5.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	After replacing the three files listed above, please perform the following
	steps:
	
	WARNING: Using the raw mode of the Exchange Server Administrator program (admin
	/r) incorrectly can cause serious problems that may require you to reinstall
	Microsoft Windows NT Server and/or Microsoft Exchange Server. Microsoft cannot
	guarantee that problems resulting from the incorrect use of raw mode can be
	solved. Use raw mode at you own risk.
	
	1. Start the Exchange Server Administrator program in raw mode by typing the
	  following at an MS-DOS command prompt:
	
	  admin.exe /r.
	
	2. Click to open the Organization folder, click Site, click Configuration, click
	  Addressing, and then click E-mail Address Generators.
	
	3. Click Internet E-mail Address Generator for i386.
	
	4. On the File menu, and click Raw Properties.
	
	5. Click File-Version from the Object attributes list.
	
	6. Click Editor, click File Version, and then click OK.
	
	7. Replace 5.5.1960.5 by typing 5.5.2425.0, and then click OK.
	
	Important Step
	--------------
	
	8. Click SET first, and then click OK in the cc:Mail E-mail Address Generator
	  for i386 Properties dialog box.
	
	9. Repeat steps 3 to 9 for "X.400 E-mail Address Generator for i386" and
	  "Microsoft Mail E-mail Address Generator for i386".
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : exc55sp2fix exc55 exc55sp1 
	Technology        : kbExchangeSearch kbExchange550 kbZNotKeyword2 kbExchange550SP1
	Version           : winnt:5.5,5.5 SP1
	Issue type        : kbprb
	Solution Type     : kbfix
	
	=============================================================================
	
