---
layout: page
title: "Q323052: PRB: .NET Alerts Code Results in E_DELIVER_FAILED Error"
permalink: kb/323/Q323052/
---

## Q323052: PRB: .NET Alerts Code Results in E_DELIVER_FAILED Error

	Article: Q323052
	Product(s): Microsoft Developer Network
	Version(s): 
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 30-JUL-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft.NET Alerts 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	.NET Alerts code may result in an E_DELIVER_FAILED error (0x81FD01F4).
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	This problem occurs because of several possible errors that are generated by a
	server that is running .NET Alerts. The error is then grouped into a generic
	E_DELIVER_FAILED error.
	
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	To determine the cause of the error, follow these steps:
	
	1. Run a Network Monitor trace of the response from the server that is running
	  .NET Alerts.
	
	2. View the STATUS element in the response to see the number for the specific
	  error code.
	
	The most common values are as follows:
	
	- 400: A required property of the alert is not present, or the values are
	  missing or not valid.
	
	- 500: Server busy.
	
	- 599: Unauthorized SiteID. Make sure that you have run the Installsdkkey.exe
	  file that is provided when you are provisioned in the test cloud.
	  Additionally, make sure that you have specified NULL string for the SiteID
	  property of the MsnNotification object and the username and the password
	  arguments of the SendNotification call.
	
	- 600: Internal error. Problem with the server that is running .NET Alerts on
	  the Microsoft side.
	
	- 700: Capacity limit exceeded. There is an alerts-per-second limit for every
	  partner on the production clouds. If a partner sends more alerts per second
	  than the capacity allocates, the alert is not delivered, and an error is
	  returned.
	
	Additional query words: netmon trace
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbNETAlerts
	Version           : :
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	
