---
layout: page
title: "Q225196: XCON: MTA Generates Event ID 9318, Windows NT Error Code 1330"
permalink: /kb/225/Q225196/
---

## Q225196: XCON: MTA Generates Event ID 9318, Windows NT Error Code 1330

{% raw %}

	Article: Q225196
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): winnt:4.0,5.0,5.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): exc4 exc5 exc55
	Last Modified: 06-AUG-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, versions 4.0, 5.0, 5.5 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	The message transfer agent (MTA) on each end of a site connector stops
	delivering messages and the following event appears in the event log:
	
	  Event ID: 9318
	  Source: MSExchangeMTA
	  Type: Warning
	  Category: Interface
	  Description: An RPC communications error occurred. Unable to bind over RPC.
	  The locality table (LTAB) index is 76. Windows NT error code: 1330 [BASE IL
	  MAIN BASE 1 500] (12)
	
	If you view the description of Windows NT error code 1330, it indicates the
	following:
	
	  Logon failure: the specified account password has expired.
	
	Stopping and restarting the MTA on each bridgehead server does not resolve the
	problem.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	This problem occurs when the password being sent by the MTA expires. This can
	occur when the Exchange Server sites are located in untrusted Windows NT domains
	and a site connector is used to connect the two sites. In this configuration, a
	user account is created in both domains and both accounts are given the same
	password. Then, the account is given Service Account Admin permissions for the
	Organization, Site, and Configuration objects in both sites. The account is also
	added to the Override tab in the properties of each site connector.
	
	If the connection is configured in this manner and the Password Never Expires
	check box in the properties for the user account is not selected, then the
	password eventually expires, causing this problem to occur.
	
	WORKAROUND
	==========
	
	Change the password for the user account in both domains, and then type the new
	password on the Override tab in the properties of each site connector.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	RPC-related events generated by the MTA often include Windows NT error codes in
	the event description. These error codes can be used to obtain additional
	information about the cause of the problem. To view the description of a Windows
	NT error code, type the following command at a command prompt, and then press
	ENTER:
	
	  "net helpmsg <errorcode>" (without the quotation marks)
	
	where <errorcode> is the Windows NT error code that appears in the event
	description.
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : exc4 exc5 exc55 
	Technology        : kbExchangeSearch kbExchange500 kbExchange550 kbExchange400 kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : winnt:4.0,5.0,5.5
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
