---
layout: page
title: "Q149359: XADM: Configuring Mailboxes to Reject Distribution List Messages"
permalink: kb/149/Q149359/
---

## Q149359: XADM: Configuring Mailboxes to Reject Distribution List Messages

	Article: Q149359
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): 5.0,5.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbusage exc5 exc55
	Last Modified: 08-JAN-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, versions 5.0, 5.5 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	Microsoft Exchange administrators have the ability to set Delivery Restrictions
	on individual mailboxes so that mail can be rejected or accepted based on who
	the sender of the message is. If you use the Microsoft Exchange Administrator's
	program to specify a Distribution List (DL) in the Reject Messages From listbox
	on the Delivery Restrictions tab of a Mailbox's properties page, you should
	expect the following behavior (where user is a member of the DL specified):
	
	- Any messages sent to the DL by members or non-members will be received by the
	  user.
	
	- All members of this DL will be unable to send explicitly to the user. An
	  important repercussion here is that the user will not be able to send mail to
	  themselves because they are a member of the DL that has been restricted. The
	  sender will receive the following Non-Delivery Report (NDR) generated by the
	  MSExchangeMTA:
	
	  A restriction in the system prevented delivery of the message.
	
	In summary, the Reject Messages From option is not designed to prohibit delivery
	of messages sent to a DL. It is designed to Reject Messages From senders who are
	members of the DL.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	If you want to stop delivery of incoming mail sent to a particular DL, use the
	Inbox Assistant. For more information about the Inbox Assistant, please refer to
	Online Help in the Microsoft Exchange client.
	
	
	Additional query words: XSRVMTA
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbusage exc5 exc55 
	Technology        : kbExchangeSearch kbExchange500 kbExchange550 kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : :5.0,5.5
	Issue type        : kbinfo
	
	=============================================================================
	
