---
layout: page
title: "Q97659: How to Add Pathworks for MS-DOS DECnet Client to Network"
permalink: kb/097/Q97659/
---

## Q97659: How to Add Pathworks for MS-DOS DECnet Client to Network

	Article: Q97659
	Product(s): Microsoft LAN Manager
	Version(s): 
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 30-JUL-2001
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	This article details the process for adding a Pathworks for MS-DOS DECnet client
	node to your network.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	1. Determine that your PC meets minimum requirements for RAM, disk space,
	  supported Ethernet or Token Ring adapter, MS-DOS 5.0, and Windows 3.1.
	
	2. Determine that each Pathworks for MS-DOS client workstation has a software
	  license.
	
	3. Configure the physical network layer, which may entail running cable,
	  installing the adapter, and troubleshooting memory or IRQ conflicts. You need
	  the driver specific to your adapter unless you are using Digital DEPCA NIC
	  and loading the native (monolithic) DEPCA driver. Native DEPCA is acceptable
	  if your only transport protocol is DECnet, otherwise load NDIS driver.
	
	4. Add the new Pathworks client node DECnet name and address to the server's NCP
	  database (this step must be performed by the network administrator).
	  Configure the new user as a PCSA user for access to the server. Even if the
	  new user is already set up as a VMS user on a VMS server, you must still add
	  it as a PCSA user.
	
	5. Generate the client initial boot disk at any network workstation by running
	  NETSETUP, filling in the appropriate node name, address, Ethernet adapter,
	  protocols, memory, and so on.
	
	6. With the new client boot disk, boot the new PC from drive A, connecting to
	  server. Run NETSETUP to download network software from server to client.
	
	7. You may still need to edit CONFIG.SYS to be sure PROGMAN finds PROTOCOL.INI.
	  The PROTOCOL.INI generated by NETSETUP is usually correct.
	
	Notes
	-----
	
	Do NOT put the PATH statement in AUTOEXEC.BAT. The network path is set in
	STARTNET.BAT and will be lost (overwritten) if it is set in AUTOEXEC.BAT. Add
	the path to STARTNET.BAT or use the %PATH% variable to retain the network path.
	If you do not set the network path, network commands won't work. For example, to
	add Windows to your path, add this line after 437USA in STARTNET.BAT:
	
	  " %PATH%;C:\WINDOWS" (without the quotation marks)
	
	Start the Print Screen utility (PSC.COM) before the redirector to avoid conflict.
	You must copy PSC.COM to %BOOT% because you are not connected to %SYSD% until
	the redirector loads. Add this line to STARTNET.BAT before loading the
	redirector:
	
	  " %BOOT%\DECNET\PSC.COM" (without the quotation marks)
	
	Configure DEC Mail by running MAILSETUP, inserting the Mail server node name. To
	turn mail notification on (so that a popup notifies you of new mail), you must
	connect with the password to the mail server and use the Other and Modify User
	Profile menus.
	
	You may configure DEC VT terminal emulation by running SETHOST and using the F3
	setup menu for configuring LAT and CTERM sessions for VMS server logon and
	network modem dialing configuration. Run SETHOST to initiate these same
	sessions.
	
	Pathworks for MS-DOS client runs these files at boot time:
	
	  CONFIG.SYS
	  AUTOEXEC.BAT  Calls STARTNET.BAT
	  STARTNET.BAT  Loads protocols and starts network, calls LOGON.BAT
	  LOGON.BAT     Connects to server with user verification,
	                 calls AUTOUSER.BAT
	  AUTOUSER.BAT  Connects user to additional net resources
	
	Set up Windows AFTER you install the Pathworks client so that you can add the
	appropriate network applications to Windows. Perform these steps in this order:
	
	1. Run
	
	     c:\windows\setup/n
	
	2. Choose the Pathworks 4.1 option for your network. This adds appropriate
	  drivers to the [386enh] section of SYSTEM.INI.
	
	3. Run %SYSD%:\MSWINV30\WIN3SETU to gain Windows compatibility with Pathworks.
	
	4. Set up applications for the network in Windows by allowing Setup to search
	  the network drive and add modules such as these:
	
	     NFT Network File Transfer
	     FAL  File Access Listener
	     NML Network Management Listener
	     Spawner
	     SEDT Screen Editor
	     NCP Network Control Protocol
	     Pathworks E-MAIL
	     SETHOST
	
	Additional query words: 2.00 2.10 2.10a 2.20
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	
	=============================================================================
	
