---
layout: page
title: "Q120193: PRB: U1150 Error From the LIB Utility"
permalink: kb/120/Q120193/
---

## Q120193: PRB: U1150 Error From the LIB Utility

	Article: Q120193
	Product(s): Microsoft Programming Utilities
	Version(s): 1.0,1.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kb16bitonly kbprb
	Last Modified: 05-MAY-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- The Microsoft Library Manager (LIB.EXE), used with:
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, versions 1.0, 1.5 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you build a Static Library (.LIB) from the Visual Workbench, the following
	error message may be returned:
	
	  LIB Fatal Error U1150
	  page size too small; use option /PAGE:n to increase it
	
	There is no way to modify the "LIB" command line within the Visual Workbench.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	There is a relatively simple workaround for this problem. All you need to do is
	find the inference rule within the makefile generated by Visual Workbench that
	causes the LIB utility to be run. There, you can change the command line that is
	passed to the LIB utility. To do this, open the makefile in a text editor and
	search for the $(PROJ).LIB: inference rule. When that inference rule is
	evaluated, it creates a LIB response file called "$(PROJ).CRF", which contains
	the command-line switches as well as the responses for the LIB utility's
	prompts. The /PAGESIZE option is set to 64, and it can be found somewhere
	between the pair of "<<" symbols. All that needs to be done is to change
	that default value from 64 to a power of 2 that is greater than 64 and is less
	than or equal to 32768 (such as 128, 256, 512, 1024, 2048, 4096, and so forth).
	
	NOTE: /PAGESIZE:64 is the hard-coded default used by the Visual Workbench when
	building a static library.
	
	There is one important caveat here, however: When you use the internal build
	engine of the Visual Workbench, the inference rule portion of the makefile is
	not used. Instead, the Visual Workbench uses the inference rules only when the
	file is opened as an external makefile. For this solution to work, the makefile
	must be opened as an external makefile in the Visual Workbench or the library
	must be built with NMAKE from the command line.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The page size of a library sets the alignment of modules stored in the library.
	Modules start at locations that are a multiple of the page size from the
	beginning of the file. When the page size is too small, the U1150 error occurs.
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	For further information, see the documentation for the LIB utility, located in
	the LIB.WRI file in the MSVC\HELP directory.
	
	Additional query words: 1.00 1.50 page size VWB
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kb16bitonly kbprb 
	Technology        : kbVCsearch kbAudDeveloper kbLibSearch
	Version           : :1.0,1.5
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	
