---
layout: page
title: "Q158720: Error Message: No Data Requested"
permalink: /kb/158/Q158720/
---

## Q158720: Error Message: No Data Requested

	Article: Q158720
	Product(s): Internet Information Server
	Version(s): WINDOWS:1.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): mspwsw95
	Last Modified: 16-SEP-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Personal Web Server version 1.0 for Windows 95 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you attempt to add a user or group to the local access control list for
	Personal Web Server, the following error message may be generated by the
	Internet Local User Administrator:
	
	  There was an error attempting the previous operation
	  No Data Requested
	
	NOTE: The error message may be only "No Data Requested."
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	This error message indicates a request to the Internet Services Administrator
	that either lacks required information or includes an incorrect response. For
	example, the following situations will generate the error message:
	
	- Failing to enter a name or password when generating a new user or group
	  account.
	
	- Pressing ENTER when you are creating a new account if the Add button does not
	  have the focus.
	
	- Failing password confirmation.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	Enter all relevant data for the account and then click Add. You must enter a
	password for each account. Personal Web Server does not support null passwords.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Configuring Personal Web Server for local security allows the administrator to
	create a database of users and groups with administrative access privileges.
	This list is maintained using the Local User Administration pages.
	
	The Local User Administration pages are accessible only if you are not loading
	the Microsoft File and Printer Sharing for Microsoft or NetWare Networks
	service. Disable the File and Printer Sharing service in Network properties to
	access the Local User Administration pages and configure Personal Web Server as
	the solitary server service for Windows 95. To disable the File and Printer
	Sharing service, follow these steps:
	
	1. Click Start, point to Settings, and then click Control Panel.
	
	2. Double-click Network.
	
	3. On the Configuration tab, click File and Print Sharing.
	
	4. Click the "I want to be able to give others access to my files" check box to
	  clear it.
	
	5. Click the "I want to be able to allow others to print to my printer(s)" check
	  box to clear it.
	
	6. Click OK until all dialog boxes are closed, and then restart your computer.
	
	For more information about the administration of Personal Web Server, see the
	following Microsoft Knowledge Base article:
	
	  Q158721 How to Configure and Administer Personal Web Server
	
	Additional query words: 1.00
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : mspwsw95 
	Technology        : kbPersWebServSearch kbZNotKeyword3 kbPersWebServ100Win95
	Version           : WINDOWS:1.0
	
	=============================================================================
	
