---
layout: page
title: "Q242287: XFOR: NDR Returned for SMTP Recipient Through Notes Connector"
permalink: /kb/242/Q242287/
---

## Q242287: XFOR: NDR Returned for SMTP Recipient Through Notes Connector

{% raw %}

	Article: Q242287
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): winnt:5.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): exc55
	Last Modified: 10-NOV-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, version 5.5 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	Certain Lotus Notes clients surround SMTP recipient names with angle brackets
	(< and >) before the messages are sent to the Notes Mail Router.
	
	When these recipient names are sent through the Exchange Notes Connector, a
	non-delivery report (NDR) is generated by the Exchange Notes Connector to the
	Notes originator.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	This behavior occurs because the Exchange Notes Connector interprets the angle
	brackets as part of the recipient address, rather than interpreting them as
	delimiters.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	This problem can be resolved by using a different Notes client.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Steps to Reproduce the Problem
	------------------------------
	
	1. Configure an Exchange Server computer with Internet Mail Service and a Notes
	  Connector.
	
	2. Using a Notes client that is known to do this, send a message to a user in
	  the form:
	
	  username@domainname.com@EXCHANGE
	
	The NDR is generated for <username@domainname.com>@EXCHANGE.
	
	Known clients that do exhibit this behavior: Notes 5.0a client
	Known clients that do not exhibit this behavior are: Notes 5.0.1a client.
	
	
	The third-party products discussed in this article are manufactured by vendors
	independent of Microsoft; we make no warranty, implied or otherwise, regarding
	these products' performance or reliability.
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : exc55 
	Technology        : kbExchangeSearch kbExchange550 kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : winnt:5.5
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
