---
layout: page
title: "Q117427: PC Ext: MS-DOS External and RebootOnCE"
permalink: kb/117/Q117427/
---

## Q117427: PC Ext: MS-DOS External and RebootOnCE

	Article: Q117427
	Product(s): Microsoft Mail For PC Networks
	Version(s): WINDOWS:3.2,3.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 05-NOV-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Mail for PC Networks, versions 3.2, 3.5 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	With Microsoft Mail for PC Networks, you can automatically reboot the MS-DOS
	External Mail program when critical errors occur. To specify automatic rebooting
	when critical errors occur, specify RebootOnCE in the EXTERNAL.INI file. For
	example:
	
	  [External]
	  RebootOnCE
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	A critical error is generated by MS-DOS when an unrecoverable situation occurs
	in an application. When this happens, the message "Abort, Retry, Fail?" is
	displayed. To continue using the application, you must respond.
	
	For example, this type of critical error occurs if, when the External Mail
	program is running, a network connection fails because of a problem on the file
	server. The External Mail program traps the error and stops moving mail on the
	failed connection; however, it continues to move mail on other connections. The
	External Mail program tries to re-establish the failed connection and MS-DOS
	successfully reconnects if the condition that caused the critical error has been
	corrected.
	
	In some environments, network redirectors become unstable after a critical error
	occurs. It is possible that the External Mail program will not be able to
	re-establish the postoffice connection and will hang. If this occurs, the
	computer on which the External Mail program is running must be rebooted. Instead
	of manually rebooting the computer, you can specify an External Mail program
	option to reboot automatically.
	
	This information is available in the README.TXT file on Mail for PC Networks Disk
	1 for version 3.2.
	
	Additional query words: 3.20 3.50 reboot
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbMailSearch kbZNotKeyword3 kbMailPCN320 kbMailPCN350
	Version           : WINDOWS:3.2,3.5
	
	=============================================================================
	
