---
layout: page
title: "Q169205: XADM: Repercussions of Deleting Public Folder Replication Messag"
permalink: kb/169/Q169205/
---

## Q169205: XADM: Repercussions of Deleting Public Folder Replication Messag

	Article: Q169205
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): winnt:5.0,5.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): exc5 exc55
	Last Modified: 16-OCT-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, versions 5.0, 5.5 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	This article explains the repercussions of deleting public folder replication
	messages from the MTA queues using the Exchange Administrator program or the
	Mtacheck.exe utility with the /rp option.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	To resolve a backlogged MTA, it may be necessary to remove all public folder
	replication messages in the MTA queues. When this is done, the result may be the
	generation of even more public folder replication messages, which may exacerbate
	the MTA problem.
	
	During normal public folder replication, when a change is made to one of the
	replicas of a public folder, the change is sent out to all the other servers
	that have replicas of that public folder. This change is sent out as a single
	mail message addressed to the public information store on each server, in each
	of the other sites in the organization. The MTA is responsible for routing this
	message to the correct destinations.
	
	When public folder replication messages in the MTA queues are removed, these
	regular public folder messages are not received by the destination servers.
	Eventually, the other servers will generate backfill request messages asking the
	server with the changes to send them the changes. These changes are now
	individually sent to each server requesting a backfill, and in turn, the number
	of public folder replication messages generated are larger.
	
	Consider a Microsoft Exchange organization with 20 sites with public folder
	replicas on one server in each site. If a public folder on a server in Site 1 is
	modified, public folder replication messages are sent out to all other servers
	in the other sites that contain a replica of this public folder.
	
	Now, suppose the MTA on the bridgehead server in Site 1 is backlogged and all the
	public folder replication messages in the MTA queues to the other sites are
	removed. When this is done, the public folder replication messages containing
	the changes to the public folder in Site never reach the other sites. This
	causes the servers in the other sites to generate Backfill request messages
	requesting these changes. In response to these Backfill messages, another
	message is sent to each server requesting the changes. This results in an
	individual message being sent to each server in the other sites containing a
	replica of the public folder. As a result, the MTA queues to the other sites
	will now have 19 new messages instead of the one original message which was
	deleted from the queue. This is in addition to the traffic generated by the
	Backfill messages from each of the other servers.
	
	In a large organization with several sites and several servers in each site, the
	amount of additional traffic caused by public folder backfill requests can be
	significant. Therefore, you should use caution when you use the MTACHECK utility
	with the /rp option or delete public folder replication messages.
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : exc5 exc55 
	Technology        : kbExchangeSearch kbExchange500 kbExchange550 kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : winnt:5.0,5.5
	Issue type        : kbinfo
	
	=============================================================================
	
