---
layout: page
title: "Q178329: Generated COBOL Data-Names Not Accessible in COBOL Program"
permalink: /kb/178/Q178329/
---

## Q178329: Generated COBOL Data-Names Not Accessible in COBOL Program

	Article: Q178329
	Product(s): Microsoft SNA Server
	Version(s): WINDOWS:1.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 05-APR-2000
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft COM Transaction Integrator for CICS and IMS, version 1.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	COBOL generated by Component Builder (CB) may include data-names that can not be
	used in COBOL program logic. In the following code snippet the data- name, DIM3,
	occurs in two places, preceded by FILLER -- once in the ~INPUT- AREA and once in
	the ~OUTPUT-AREA. Because of the presence of the FILLER, COBOL code cannot refer
	to the DIM3 variables.
	
	  01  INCLUDEACTSIZE-INPUT-AREA.
	      05  ARRRSET5-6-7-DIM0                PIC 9(9) COMP.
	      05  ARRRSET5-6-7-DIM1                PIC 9(9) COMP.
	      05  ARRRSET5-6-7-DIM2                PIC 9(9) COMP.
	      05  FILLER OCCURS 5 TIMES.
	          10  FILLER OCCURS 6 TIMES.
	              15  FILLER OCCURS 7 TIMES.
	                  20  DIM3                 PIC 9(9) COMP.
	                  20  ARRRSET5-6-7 OCCURS 50 TIMES.
	                      25  MEMBER1          PIC S9(4) COMP.
	                      25  MEMBER2          PIC X(40).
	  01  INCLUDEACTSIZE-OUTPUT-AREA.
	      05  RETVAL                           PIC S9(4) COMP.
	      05  ARRRSET5-6-7-DIM0                PIC 9(9) COMP.
	      05  ARRRSET5-6-7-DIM1                PIC 9(9) COMP.
	      05  ARRRSET5-6-7-DIM2                PIC 9(9) COMP.
	      05  FILLER OCCURS 5 TIMES.
	          10  FILLER OCCURS 6 TIMES.
	              15  FILLER OCCURS 7 TIMES.
	                  20  DIM3                 PIC 9(9) COMP.
	                  20  ARRRSET5-6-7 OCCURS 50 TIMES.
	                      25  MEMBER1          PIC S9(4) COMP.
	                      25  MEMBER2          PIC X(40).
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	This problem can occur when using an IMS Remote Environment (RE) and a CICS RE,
	but not when using a CICS LINK RE. Three additional things occur together to
	cause the problem.
	
	First, a recordset is declared and used for a parameter. The direction for the
	parameter is specified as "Input and Output." That is why the ~INPUT- AREA and
	the ~OUTPUT-AREA are both generated per the code snippet above.
	
	Second, the parameter is declared as an array. In our example, the parameter was
	declared as a multidimensional array with dimensions (5, 6, 7). The three FILLER
	items preceding the DIM3 variable are generated to dimension the array in
	COBOL.
	
	Third, the array properties of the parameter are set to "Include actual size."
	That is why the three variables, ~DIM0, ~DIM1, and ~DIM2 are generated. This
	array property also causes the DIM3 variables to be generated. DIM0, DIM1, and
	DIM2 contain the actual count of each dimension of the array. DIM3 contains the
	actual number of rows in the recordset.
	
	In this example, the recordset property of the parameter was set to 50 for
	"Group-Item Maximum Occurrences." That is why "ARRRSET5-6-7 OCCURS 50 TIMES" was
	generated.
	
	WORKAROUND
	==========
	
	After the COBOL is generated, it must be manually changed to replace the FILLER
	statements with a usable COBOL data-name. Thereafter, it can be included in a
	COBOL program and the two DIM3 variables can be individually referenced to
	assign the row count for output or reference it for input.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a problem in SNA Server 4.0. A supported fix
	is now available for SNA Server 4.0, but has not been fully regression-tested
	and should be applied only to systems experiencing this specific problem. Unless
	you are severely impacted by this specific problem, Microsoft recommends that
	you wait for the next Service Pack that contains this fix. Contact Microsoft
	Product Support Services for more information.
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbAudDeveloper kbCOMTISearch kbCOMTI100
	Version           : WINDOWS:1.0
	Hardware          : ALPHA x86
	Issue type        : kbbug
	Solution Type     : kbpending
	
	=============================================================================
	
