---
layout: page
title: "Q259249: SMS: DDM Merges DDRs from Shared Docking Station Environment"
permalink: kb/259/Q259249/
---

## Q259249: SMS: DDM Merges DDRs from Shared Docking Station Environment

	Article: Q259249
	Product(s): Microsoft Systems Management Server
	Version(s): winnt:2.0,2.0 SP1,2.0 SP2
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbsms200 kbsms200bug kbDiscovery
	Last Modified: 23-OCT-2000
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Systems Management Server versions 2.0, 2.0 SP1, 2.0 SP2 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	Machine Discovery properties are displaced by the most recent Network Discovery
	DDR when two or more computers interchange between the same docking station
	network adapter.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	Data Discover Manager is not capable of discriminating between different Network
	Discovery DDR records generated by different computers interchanging between the
	same pooled docking station network adapter.
	
	The Network Discovery DDR contains only a subset of the properties used by other
	discovery mechanisms - in particular, it lacks a globally unique identifier
	(GUID) - and therefore relies on other properties to uniquely identify a
	computer.
	
	Data Discovery Manager uses only the IP address and the media access control
	address to uniquely identify a Network Discovery DDR. Unfortunately, these
	properties are not unique in situations where the network adapter is located in
	a pooled docking station. Consequently, when a second computer uses the network
	adapter of a docking station that has previously been discovered, and Network
	Discovery runs, the NetBIOS name of the previously discovered computer is
	supplanted by the second computer.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a problem in Systems Management Server
	version 2.0 and 2.0 SP1.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Network Discovery is not supported in an environment that uses pooled network
	adapters.
	
	Additional query words: prodsms
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbsms200 kbsms200bug kbDiscovery 
	Technology        : kbSMSSearch kbSMS200 kbSMS200SP1 kbSMS200SP2
	Version           : winnt:2.0,2.0 SP1,2.0 SP2
	Issue type        : kbbug
	Solution Type     : kbnofix
	
	=============================================================================
	
