---
layout: page
title: "Q249140: AD Replication Unsuccessful Using Srvmgr in Windows 2000 Domain"
permalink: kb/249/Q249140/
---

## Q249140: AD Replication Unsuccessful Using Srvmgr in Windows 2000 Domain

	Article: Q249140
	Product(s): Microsoft Windows NT
	Version(s): WINDOWS:; winnt:4.0,4.0 SP1,4.0 SP2,4.0 SP3,4.0 SP4,4.0 SP5,4.0 SP6,4.0 SP6a
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbnetwork kbWinNT400PreSP7Fix
	Last Modified: 08-MAY-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Windows NT Server versions 4.0, 4.0 SP1, 4.0 SP2, 4.0 SP3, 4.0 SP4, 4.0 SP5, 4.0 SP6, 4.0 SP6a 
	- Microsoft Windows 2000 Advanced Server 
	- Microsoft Windows 2000 Server 
	- Microsoft Windows 2000 Professional 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	You can use Server Manager (Srvmgr.exe) to synchronize the user account database
	of a Windows NT 4.0 or Windows 2000 domain. If you use the Windows NT 4.0
	version of Server Manager to trigger synchronization in a domain with a Windows
	2000 primary domain controller (PDC), Active Directory replication may not
	work.
	
	You can use Replmon.exe to search for all domain controllers with unsuccessful
	replication. An example output follows:
	
	  Active Directory Replication Domain Controller Replication Failure
	  Output Printed at 12/3/1999 6:03:41 AM
	
	  Below are the replication failures detected on Domain Controllers
	  for this domain:
	
	  Domain Controller Name: DCNAME00
	  Directory Partition:    DC=domain,DC=corp
	  Replication Partner:    Domain\DCNAME01
	  Failure Code:           5
	  Failure Reason:         Access is denied.
	
	Additionally, the Internet Service Manager (ISM) service on the server may not
	start and may display an SEC_E_LOGON_DENIED error code.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	This behavior occurs because the synchronization request generated by the
	Windows NT 4.0 version of Server Manager triggers a computer account password
	reset operation. After the password is changed, the PDC cannot establish a
	secure replication channel between itself and its partner domain controllers.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	A new version of Srvmgr.exe is available for use in mixed-mode domains, with
	Windows NT 4.0 and Windows 2000 domain controllers. This version of Srvmgr.exe
	checks to see if the PDC is a Windows 2000 domain controller. If it is a Windows
	2000 domain controller, the password reset operation is not triggered.
	
	A supported fix is now available from Microsoft, but it is only intended to
	correct the problem described in this article and should be applied only to
	systems experiencing this specific problem.
	
	To resolve this problem, contact Microsoft Product Support Services to obtain the
	fix. For a complete list of Microsoft Product Support Services phone numbers and
	information on support costs, please go to the following address on the World
	Wide Web:
	
	  http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=fh;EN-US;CNTACTMS
	
	NOTE: In special cases, charges that are normally incurred for support calls may
	be canceled, if a Microsoft Support Professional determines that a specific
	update will resolve your problem. Normal support costs will apply to additional
	support questions and issues that do not qualify for the specific update in
	question.
	
	The English-language version of this fix should have the following file
	attributes or later:
	
	  Date        Time     Size      File name     Platform
	  -----------------------------------------------------
	  12/23/1999  12:50p   211,216   Srvmgr.exe    I386
	  12/23/1999  12:50p   305,936   Srvmgr.exe    Alpha
	
	
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a problem in Windows NT 4.0.
	
	Additional query words: fail fails dc
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbnetwork kbWinNT400PreSP7Fix 
	Technology        : kbWinNTsearch kbWinNT400search kbwin2000AdvServ kbwin2000AdvServSearch kbwin2000Serv kbWinNTSsearch kbWinNTS400sp6 kbWinNTS400sp5 kbWinNTS400sp4 kbWinNTS400sp3 kbWinNTS400sp2 kbWinNTS400sp1 kbWinNTS400search kbWinNTS400 kbwin2000ServSearch kbwin2000Search kbwin2000ProSearch kbwin2000Pro kbWinAdvServSearch
	Version           : WINDOWS:; winnt:4.0,4.0 SP1,4.0 SP2,4.0 SP3,4.0 SP4,4.0 SP5,4.0 SP6,4.0 SP6a
	Hardware          : ALPHA x86
	Issue type        : kbbug
	Solution Type     : kbfix
	
	=============================================================================
	
