---
layout: page
title: "Q166045: XFOR: cc:Mail Connector Event ID 70"
permalink: /kb/166/Q166045/
---

## Q166045: XFOR: cc:Mail Connector Event ID 70

	Article: Q166045
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): winnt:5.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kb3rdparty kbusage
	Last Modified: 18-APR-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, version 5.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you run the Microsoft Exchange Server Connector for Lotus cc:Mail, the
	following error message may appear in the event log:
	
	  STOP
	  Event ID:70
	  Source:MSExchangeCCMC
	  Type:Error
	  Category:General
	
	  Description:
	  Lotus cc:Mail EXPORT to file msgxxxx.ccm returned result code 3. The
	  Microsoft Exchange Connector for Lotus cc:Mail has not been configured
	  correctly or the Post Office it is configured to connect to is not
	  accessible at this time.
	
	In this example, in the file ID, "xxxx" stands for a sequentially generated
	hexadecimal ID number.
	
	The generation of this message may also be a reason why mail is not flowing from
	cc:Mail to Exchange Server, and may keep the directory synchronization (dirsync)
	process from completing.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	This is a generic error message from the cc:Mail Export program. This error
	message is generated by the cc:Mail Export program and the connector is only
	displaying it in the Event log. There are several reason why this error message
	may be generated:
	
	- The Postoffice tab on the cc:Mail connector has invalid information.
	
	- The Exchange service account does not have access to the cc:Mail postoffice.
	
	- The cc:Mail postoffice is fragmented and/or damaged.
	
	- Exchange Server has been installed to a directory path that has a space in
	  it.
	
	  For additional information on this issue, please see the following article in
	  the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q164695 XFOR: CCMC Stops Responding
	
	- Dirsync has not run and successfully completed against this cc:Mail
	  postoffice.
	
	NOTE: The error occurs every time the service is started until dirsync
	successfully completes.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	To resolve this problem, do one of the following:
	
	- Ensure that the cc:Mail connector Postoffice tab is correctly configured.
	  Refer to the Exchange 5.0 "What's New Guide" to for more information.
	
	  NOTE: Also ensure that the correct cc:Mail Postoffice password is being used.
	
	- If the cc:Mail Postoffice is on a Windows NT Server, follow normal access
	  right troubleshooting procedures to correct the problem. If the cc:Mail
	  Postoffice is on a NetWare server, ensure that Gateway Services for NetWare
	  (GSNW) is configured correctly. There are several resources available to you
	  to do this:
	
	   - See Section 2.6.6. in the Readme.wri document that ships with the Exchange
	     Server 5.0. Readme.wri is located at the root of the Exchange Server CD.
	
	   - Refer to the Windows NT online documentation.
	
	  For additional information on this issue, please see the following article in
	  the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q164707 XFOR: Connecting the cc:MC to a cc:Mail PO on a NetWare Server
	
	- Have the cc:Mail Administrator perform routine maintenance against the
	  postoffice.
	
	  The ccMail Administrator can run the following utilities to fix fragmentation
	  and corruption in the ccMail Postoffice: Analyze, Chkstat and Reclaim. The
	  administrator should run the Analyze utility after every time the Chkstat and
	  Reclaim utilities have been run to ensure that all corruption has been fixed.
	
	- Ignore this error message until the first dirsync cycle with the cc:Mail
	  postoffice has completed. This error message appears because the Export
	  utility is trying to Export information from a postoffice definition that
	  does not yet exist.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	For more information on the cc:Mail utilities, Analyze, Chkstat and Reclaim,
	refer to the cc:Mail documentation or contact Lotus technical support.
	
	cc:Mail is manufactured by Lotus, a vendor independent of Microsoft; we make no
	warranty, implied or otherwise, regarding this product's performance or
	reliability.
	
	
	
	Additional query words: CCMC Novell 3.1x 4.x
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kb3rdparty kbusage 
	Technology        : kbExchangeSearch kbExchange500 kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : winnt:5.0
	
	=============================================================================
	
