---
layout: page
title: "Q275566: PRB: Default Settings Change When Restarting Visual FoxPro"
permalink: /kb/275/Q275566/
---

## Q275566: PRB: Default Settings Change When Restarting Visual FoxPro

{% raw %}

	Article: Q275566
	Product(s): Microsoft FoxPro
	Version(s): 6.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbwizard kbvfp600 kbGrpDSFox kbDSupport kbCodeSnippet
	Last Modified: 31-OCT-2000
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual FoxPro for Windows, version 6.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	Settings in the Options dialog box of the Tools menu do not hold their values
	when you restart the Visual FoxPro (VFP) development environment.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	The New Project Wizard (Application Wizard) creates a Config.fpw file in the VFP
	home folder. This configuration file includes code to reset various system
	variables.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	To prevent this from happening, build new projects in their own folders, rather
	than in the VFP default folder. To correct the problem, either move the
	application's files (including the Config.fpw file) to a separate folder, or
	edit the configuration file to remove all undesired settings.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The following configuration file is generated by the Application Builder:
	
	  * CONFIG.FPW for C:\MYAPP\MYAPP.PJX
	
	  * This file is a generated, framework-enabling component
	  * created by APPBUILDER 
	  * (c) Microsoft Corporation
	
	  * This file should contain the settings 
	  * appropriate to your project
	  * and be added in to the project/exe
	  * or installed in the EXE directory
	
	  * It overrides registry settings
	
	  * You can use the -C switch or FOXPROWCFG environmental
	  * variables to point to a config file by name, and
	  * and the FOXPROSWX variable also handles -C among
	  * the other switches.
	
	  SCREEN = OFF
	  TITLE = MyApp
	
	  * Change this to suit:
	  * TMPFILES = *<GETENV("TEMP")>*
	  * or set EDITWORK,SORTWORK,PROGWORK individually
	  * note: these should never be set in a CONFIG.FPW
	  * built into your EXE! See above for ways of pointing
	  * to a CONFIG file.
	
	  * To specify a startup program, possibly temporarily,
	  * on the way into your app:
	  _STARTUP = ""
	
	  * to eliminate load time:
	  _BROWSER = ""
	  _SPELLCHK = ""
	  _GENMENU = ""
	  _GENGRAPH = ""
	  _GENXTAB = ""
	  _COVERAGE = ""
	  _SCCTEXT = ""
	  _CONVERTER = ""
	  _TRANSPORTER = ""
	  _BUILDER = ""
	  _WIZARD = ""
	
	  * other special CONFIG.FPW settings you may wish to change:
	  * (these are the defaults)
	  MVCOUNT = 1025 
	  OUTSHOW = ON   
	
	  * Set other global settings here if you like, for example:
	  RESOURCE = OFF
	  _THROTTLE = 0
	
	  * See the application object's SetDataSessionSets() method
	  * for some additional settings you
	  * may like to use in your config file.
	  * The following are not the default settings, 
	  * (and ordinarily will be taken care of in the 
	  * Load of private-session forms and formsets):
	  TALK = OFF
	  MULTILOCKS = ON
	  EXCLUSIVE = OFF
	  SAFETY = OFF
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	For additional information about the Application Wizard, please see the
	"Application Wizard (Visual FoxPro 6.0)" topic in the Help files.
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbwizard kbvfp600 kbGrpDSFox kbDSupport kbCodeSnippet 
	Technology        : kbVFPsearch kbAudDeveloper kbVFP600
	Version           : :6.0
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
