---
layout: page
title: "Q195474: HOWTO: Determine RDO Files Needed for Distribution of App"
permalink: /kb/195/Q195474/
---

## Q195474: HOWTO: Determine RDO Files Needed for Distribution of App

	Article: Q195474
	Product(s): Microsoft Visual Basic for Windows
	Version(s): WINDOWS:5.0,6.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbwizard kbAppSetup kbRDO kbSDKWin32 kbVBp500 kbVBp600 kbGrpDSVB kbGrpDSVBDB
	Last Modified: 09-JAN-2000
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Enterprise Edition for Windows, versions 5.0, 6.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	If you need to know all of the files needed to distribute for RDO to work
	successfully on a machine that does not have Visual Basic installed, you can
	determine this by using the Dependency file generated by the Setup Wizard. ODBC
	must already be on the machine where RDO is being installed.
	
	Another option is to use the Dependency Walker that comes with the Platform SDK.
	This shows all of the files a particular DLL depends upon in a graphical format.
	It can be obtained at:
	
	  http://www.microsoft.com/msdownload/platformsdk/sdktools.htm
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The following steps will generate a dependency file showing the files needed for
	RDO:
	
	1. Create a Standard EXE project in Visual Basic. Form1 is created by default.
	
	2. Add a reference to "Microsoft Remote Data Object 2.0."
	
	3. Save this project and run the Application Setup Wizard on it.
	
	4. Select "Generate Dependency File" in the Setup Wizard.
	
	5. Once the setup files are created. run the Setup.exe.
	
	6. You will then have a file with a .DEP extension that can be opened with
	  Notepad. MSRDO20.DLL will be shown in this file and the files it uses are
	  also shown (RDOCURS.DLL, COMCAT.DLL, and ODBC32.DLL).
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	For additional information, please see the following article in the Microsoft
	Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q176428 : PRB: MSRDO20.OCX Not Registered When Running Application Setup
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbwizard kbAppSetup kbRDO kbSDKWin32 kbVBp500 kbVBp600 kbGrpDSVB kbGrpDSVBDB 
	Technology        : kbVBSearch kbAudDeveloper kbZNotKeyword6 kbZNotKeyword2 kbVB500Search kbVB600Search kbVB500 kbVB600
	Version           : WINDOWS:5.0,6.0
	Issue type        : kbhowto
	
	=============================================================================
	
