---
layout: page
title: "Q117408: Query Speed Is Slower with ORDER BY Clause"
permalink: /kb/117/Q117408/
---

## Q117408: Query Speed Is Slower with ORDER BY Clause

{% raw %}

	Article: Q117408
	Product(s): Microsoft FoxPro
	Version(s): MACINTOSH:2.5x,2.6; MS-DOS:2.5x,2.6x; WINDOWS:2.5x,2.6x,3.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 10-FEB-2000
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft FoxPro for Macintosh, versions 2.5x, 2.6 
	- Microsoft Visual FoxPro for Windows, version 3.0 
	- Microsoft FoxPro for Windows, versions 2.5x, 2.6x 
	- Microsoft FoxPro for MS-DOS, versions 2.5x, 2.6x 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	A query with an ORDER BY clause will be considerably slower than the same query
	without the ORDER BY clause.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The query times will vary based on the size of the database queried and the
	hardware involved. However, the times illustrated below show a considerable
	difference between querying with and without an ORDER BY clause.
	
	When an ORDER BY clause is used, a new database is being generated by the query.
	Display status will show "table in use" as a table with a .TMP extension.
	Without the ORDER BY clause, the original database is used to generate the
	cursor query. Display status will show "table in use as the original table."
	
	Steps to Reproduce Behavior
	---------------------------
	
	1. Open a database with 10,000 records or more and open an RQBE window.
	
	2. Make sure an index exists for the field on which the query will be based, and
	  then query without an ORDER BY clause. (In our test with a 10,000-record
	  database, the query time shown in the status bar was 0.10 seconds.)
	
	3. Query with an ORDER BY clause based on a different field. (In our test on the
	  same database, the query time shown in the status bar was 17.68 seconds.)
	
	Additional query words: VFoxWin FoxMac FoxDos FoxWin 2.50 2.50a 2.50b 2.50c 2.60 2.60a relational query by example
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbHWMAC kbOSMAC kbVFPsearch kbAudDeveloper kbFoxproSearch kbZNotKeyword3 kbVFP300
	Version           : MACINTOSH:2.5x,2.6; MS-DOS:2.5x,2.6x; WINDOWS:2.5x,2.6x,3.0
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
