---
layout: page
title: "Q196394: XADM: Store Randomly Stops with Dr.Watson and c0000005 Error"
permalink: kb/196/Q196394/
---

## Q196394: XADM: Store Randomly Stops with Dr.Watson and c0000005 Error

	Article: Q196394
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): WinNT:5.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 24-APR-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, version 5.5 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	The Microsoft Exchange Server information store generates a 'Dr. Watson' pop-up
	error message and the application log will show an 'Access Violation' error
	(c0000005) generated by the information store that correlates to the Dr. Watson
	message. After restarting the information store or rebooting the server,
	everything will appear to run normally. This event may occur at random, and may
	take days or weeks to happen again (or may not happen again).
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	One possible cause is a known issue in the Intel Pentium Pro 200 series of CPU
	errata #59. This series of CPU can generate a Machine Check Exception in the
	Instruction Fetch Unit because of its behavior when handling Exchange Store.exe
	instructions. The only way to confirm the error messages were caused by this
	issue is by debugging the User.dmp file generated during a Dr.Watson event.
	Please contact your Microsoft Exchange Support Representative for further
	instructions or troubleshooting steps.
	
	
	
	WORKAROUND
	==========
	
	To work around this problem, contact your hardware vendor and request an updated
	BIOS. Most manufacturers have a BIOS update that circumvents this problem.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	For information about how to contact your hardware vendor, query in the
	Knowledge Base for the following article:
	
	  Q65416 Hardware and Software Third-Party Vendor Contact List, A-K
	
	  Q60781 Hardware and Software Third-Party Vendor Contact List, L-P
	
	  Q60782 Hardware and Software Third-Party Vendor Contact List, Q-Z
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbExchangeSearch kbExchange550 kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : WinNT:5.5
	Issue type        : kbbug
	
	=============================================================================
	
