---
layout: page
title: "Q194566: WD97: WordPerfect 5.x File Appears Corrupt When Opened in Word"
permalink: /kb/194/Q194566/
---

## Q194566: WD97: WordPerfect 5.x File Appears Corrupt When Opened in Word

{% raw %}

	Article: Q194566
	Product(s): Word 97 for Windows
	Version(s): WINDOWS:97
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbdta kbconversion winword word97
	Last Modified: 14-NOV-2000
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Word 97 for Windows 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When a document that was originally saved as WordPerfect 5.0/5.1 format from
	within WordPerfect version 2.0, 2.12, or 3.0 for the Macintosh is opened in
	Microsoft Word, the document may appear corrupted or you may receive the
	following error message:
	
	  Document appears to be corrupt
	
	The corrupted appearance also occurs with files saved from WordPerfect 3.0 for
	the Macintosh as WordPerfect 2.1 for the Macintosh format and opened in Word for
	the Macintosh using the WordPerfect 2.0 for the Macintosh converter.
	
	In each case, blocks and other "garbage" (corrupted data) may appear throughout
	the converted document.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	This problem occurs because WordPerfect versions 2.x and 3.0 for the Macintosh
	do not always export a 100-percent standard WordPerfect for MS-DOS document, and
	WordPerfect 3.0 for the Macintosh doesn't always export a 100-percent valid
	WordPerfect 2.1 for the Macintosh document.
	
	The WordPerfect converters supplied with Word for the Macintosh, Word for
	Windows, and Word for MS-DOS are optimized to read a valid WordPerfect document
	but cannot work around nonstandard structure if generated by WordPerfect for the
	Macintosh.
	
	
	WORKAROUND
	==========
	
	Method 1
	--------
	
	If you are using WordPerfect 3.0 for the Macintosh, save your documents as Rich
	Text Format (RTF) instead, and open from this format in Word.
	
	Method 2
	--------
	
	If you have WordPerfect for the Macintosh documents and you only have access to
	WordPerfect for MS-DOS or WordPerfect for Windows, follow these steps:
	
	1. Open the document in WordPerfect for MS-DOS or Windows.
	
	2. Paginate the document (in WordPerfect for MS-DOS, press HOME, HOME, DOWN
	  ARROW, followed by HOME, HOME, UP ARROW, and in WordPerfect for Windows
	  scroll to the bottom of your document and then back to the top).
	
	3. Resave and attempt to open in Word.
	
	NOTE: This is a workaround that may not resolve the problem in every instance.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The third-party products mentioned here are manufactured by Corel Corporation, a
	vendor independent of Microsoft; we make no warranty, implied or otherwise,
	regarding these products' performance or reliability.
	
	Support for WordPerfect 3.0 for the Macintosh, WordPerfect 5.x for DOS, and
	WordPerfect for Windows is the sole responsibility of Corel Corporation. For
	more information or technical support, contact Corel Customer Support.
	
	For information about how to contact Corel, query in the Knowledge Base for one
	of the following articles: For additional information about , please click the
	article number(s) below to view the article(s) in the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q65416 Hardware and Software Third-Party Vendor Contact List, A-K
	
	  Q60781 Hardware and Software Third-Party Vendor Contact List, L-P
	
	  Q60782 Hardware and Software Third-Party Vendor Contact List, Q-Z
	
	
	Additional query words: conversion converted converts transfer transfers translation translate text garbage characters block blocks junk damage damaged unreadable perfect
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbdta kbconversion winword word97 
	Technology        : kbWordSearch kbWord97 kbWord97Search kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : WINDOWS:97
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
