---
layout: page
title: "Q93206: PostScript EPS Files Are Device Independent"
permalink: /kb/093/Q93206/
---

## Q93206: PostScript EPS Files Are Device Independent

	Article: Q93206
	Product(s): Microsoft Windows 95.x Retail Product
	Version(s): WINDOWS:3.1,3.11
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 06-DEC-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Windows versions 3.1, 3.11 
	- Microsoft Windows for Workgroups versions 3.1, 3.11 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	When you print from Windows to an encapsulated PostScript (EPS) file, Windows
	creates a device independent file. EPS files can be imported into other
	PostScript files, and aren't designed to be copied to a printer. For example,
	you can create a graphic, print it to an EPS file and import that into another
	document in a device-independent format.
	
	Most EPS files (including those generated by Windows) print when you copy them to
	a printer. However, because these are in device independent format, device
	features that may need to be selected differently by the printer driver for
	different devices (paper size, paper bin, resolution, and so on) won't
	necessarily work when you copy an EPS file to a printer.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	If you want to print to a file that can be copied to a printer:
	
	1. Run Control Panel.
	
	2. Select or install the printer driver for the specific printer to which you
	  plan to copy the file.
	
	3. Choose the Connect button.
	
	4. Select FILE: from the Ports list box and choose the OK button.
	
	5. Choose the Setup button.
	
	6. Choose the Options button.
	
	7. Select the Printer option.
	
	8. Choose the OK button twice.
	
	When you print, Windows prompts you for the filename. Print to a unique file (for
	example OUTPUT.PRN). You can now copy this file to the printer and your output
	should be correct.
	
	
	Additional query words: kbprint 3.1 3.10 3.11 win31 wfwg
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbAudDeveloper kbWin3xSearch kbWFWSearch kbZNotKeyword3 kbWin310 kbWin311 kbWFW310 kbWFW311
	Version           : WINDOWS:3.1,3.11
	
	=============================================================================
	
