---
layout: page
title: "Q60504: Can't Disable Communications Server Error Dialog Boxes"
permalink: kb/060/Q60504/
---

## Q60504: Can't Disable Communications Server Error Dialog Boxes

	Article: Q60504
	Product(s): Microsoft LAN Manager
	Version(s): 1.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 08-NOV-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- DCA/Microsoft Communications Server, version 1.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	You cannot disable the error message dialog boxes generated by a
	Communications Server workstation or server. All severity level 12 and 16
	errors are designed to generate error messages. The purpose of these
	messages is to provide a visible indicator to the user or administrator
	that a severe or critical error has occurred, so that the user or
	administrator can take corrective action.
	
	The following is additional information:
	
	1. If the ESC key isn't pressed, error message dialog boxes are designed to
	  disappear automatically after 60 seconds. Messages will not stack up on the
	  server.
	
	2. All Communications Server error messages are recorded in an error log file.
	  (The default filename is COM.ERR. It is located in the LOGS sub-directory).
	
	3. Communications Server messages cannot be redirected to another machine. Link
	  or connection related errors are displayed on the machine that supports the
	  link. If a connection is activated remotely and a link activation error
	  occurs, the remote user will be notified that the connection could not be
	  activated, and an error message will appear on the machine that supports the
	  link service (on the machine that has the communications adapter).
	
	4. For connection activation errors (that is, there is link problems when the
	  connection is defined to be activated initially), only the first connection
	  activation failure will be displayed as an error message. If an administrator
	  attempts to reactivate the connection and another error occurs, another
	  message will appear.
	
	5. Currently, all severity level 12 and 16 errors are defined to be severe or
	  critical errors. If you feel that a certain situation should not generate an
	  error message, it should be reported to your Communications Server support
	  personnel. When this situation has been reported to Microsoft, it will be
	  reviewed, and the change request will be considered for inclusion in a future
	  release of the product.
	
	Additional query words: 1.00 prodcs
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : _IKkbbogus kbSNAServSearch kbDCAMSCommServ
	Version           : :1.0
	
	=============================================================================
	
