---
layout: page
title: "Q279428: XADM: Can't Modify Meeting Request Originating from Deleted User"
permalink: /kb/279/Q279428/
---

## Q279428: XADM: Can't Modify Meeting Request Originating from Deleted User

{% raw %}

	Article: Q279428
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): 2000,5.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 06-AUG-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, version 5.5 
	- Microsoft Outlook 2000, used with:
	   - Microsoft Windows 2000 Professional 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	If you delete a user mailbox from an Exchange Server computer, you cannot cancel
	or modify meeting requests of which this user is the originator.
	
	When you attempt to accept or decline the meeting that resides on your calendar,
	you may receive a non-delivery report (NDR) similar to the following one:
	
	  Your message did not reach some or all of the intended recipients.
	
	  Subject: Declined: Meeting Subject
	  Sent: 2/13/2001 12:00 PM
	  The following recipient(s) could not be reached:
	
	  /O=ORGANIZATION/OU=FIRST ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=DeletedUser on
	  2/13/2001 12:00 PM
	
	  The e-mail account does not exist at the organization this message was sent
	  to. Check the e-mail address, or contact the recipient directly to find out
	  the correct address.
	
	  <server.domain.com #5.1.1>
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	Cancel the Meeting Request from the Originating User's Mailbox
	--------------------------------------------------------------
	
	Before deleting a user's mailbox from the Exchange Server computer, cancel all
	pending meeting requests of which the user is the originator.
	
	Change the Primary Microsoft Windows NT Account of the Mailbox:
	
	1. In the Exchange Administrator program, open the property page of the mailbox
	  that contains the meeting requests to be canceled.
	
	2. From General/Primary Windows NT Account, click "Select an existing Windows NT
	  account", click OK, and then add the Administrator account.
	
	3. Close the mailbox property page.
	
	Cancel the Meeting Requests:
	
	1. In Outlook, open the calendar. On the View menu, point to Current View, and
	  then click Active Appointments.
	
	2. On the View menu, point to Current View, and then click Customize Current
	  View.
	
	3. In View Summary, click Filter.
	
	4. On the Advanced tab, under "Define more criteria", click Field.
	
	5. Point to All Appointment Fields, and then click Meeting Status.
	
	6. Under Condition, click to select the equals check box.
	
	7. Under Value, click to select the Meeting Organizer check box.
	
	8. Click "Add to List", and then click OK twice.
	
	9. All meeting requests of which the user was the meeting organizer are now
	  displayed in the Active Appointments view. Open each meeting request, click
	  Action, and then click Cancel Meeting.
	
	Manually Remove the Meeting Request From Invitee Calendars
	----------------------------------------------------------
	
	If you have already deleted the originating user's mailbox from the Exchange
	Server computer, you must manually remove any meeting requests that were
	generated by that user from the calendar of each invitee.
	
	1. In Outlook, open the calendar. On the View menu, point to Current View, and
	  then click Active Appointments.
	
	2. On the View menu, point to Current View, and then click Customize Current
	  View.
	
	3. In View Summary, click Fields.
	
	4. Under "Select available fields from", click to select the "All Appointment
	  fields" check box.
	
	5. Under "Available fields", click to select the Organizer check box. Click Add,
	  and then click OK twice.
	
	6. Click the Organizer column header to sort the view.
	
	7. In the sorted view, locate all meeting requests where the organizer is the
	  individual that no longer has a mailbox on the Exchange Server computer, and
	  then delete those items from the calendar.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	This behavior is by design.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	For additional information, click the article number below to view the article
	in the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q217619 XCLN: Error Deleting Updated Meeting Request
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbOutlookSearch kbExchangeSearch kbZNotKeyword2 kbOutlook2000Search kbZNotKeyword3
	Version           : :2000,5.5
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
