---
layout: page
title: "Q191187: PRB: Do Not Modify ASP File That Is Created by WebClass Designer"
permalink: kb/191/Q191187/
---

## Q191187: PRB: Do Not Modify ASP File That Is Created by WebClass Designer

	Article: Q191187
	Product(s): Microsoft Visual Basic for Windows
	Version(s): 6.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbInternet kbVBp kbVBp600 kbWebClasses kbDSupport
	Last Modified: 04-MAR-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Professional Edition for Windows, version 6.0 
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Enterprise Edition for Windows, version 6.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	Place a Response.write command just before the ProcessNoStateWebClass call in
	the .asp file generated by the WebClass Designer. When you navigate to that
	site, you see only the Response.write output. You do not see any output from
	your WebClass even though the code is running.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	The information that the WebClass writes to the Response property is flushed by
	the call to Response.write in the .asp file.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	Do not change the .asp file that is created by the WebClass designer.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	This behavior is by design.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Following is a sample .asp file created by the WebClass Designer that has been
	modified. Notice the Response.write "Initializing " line of code.
	
	Sample Code
	-----------
	
	     <%
	     Response.Buffer=True
	     Response.Expires=0
	
	     If (VarType(Application("~WC~WebClassManager")) = 0) Then
	      Application.Lock
	      If (VarType(Application("~WC~WebClassManager")) = 0) Then
	       Set Application("~WC~WebClassManager") =
	       Server.CreateObject("WebClassRuntime.WebClassManager")
	      End If
	      Application.UnLock
	     End if
	
	     Response.write "Initializing "
	
	     Application("~WC~WebClassManager").ProcessNoStateWebClass "MyApp.xxx", _
	       Server, _
	       Application, _
	       Session, _
	       Request, _
	       Response
	     %>
	
	When you navigate to this site, you see only the Response.write output. You do
	not see any output from your WebClass even though the code is running.
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	Please see the following article here in the Microsoft Knowledge Base for more
	information on WebClasses:
	
	  Q189539 INFO: VB 6.0 Readme Part 8: WebClass Designer Issues
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbInternet kbVBp kbVBp600 kbWebClasses kbDSupport 
	Technology        : kbVBSearch kbAudDeveloper kbZNotKeyword6 kbZNotKeyword2 kbVB600Search kbVBA600 kbVB600
	Version           : :6.0
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	
