---
layout: page
title: "Q132413: PC Ext: Err Msg: Error Code=1005, Device Error=000c"
permalink: /kb/132/Q132413/
---

## Q132413: PC Ext: Err Msg: Error Code=1005, Device Error=000c

	Article: Q132413
	Product(s): Microsoft Mail For PC Networks
	Version(s): WINDOWS:3.2
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 30-OCT-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Mail for PC Networks, version 3.2 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	External may report the following error in the SESSION.LOG when you try to send
	a mail message to a local area network (LAN) connected postoffice:
	
	  A critical error has occurred
	  Error Code=1005, Device Error=000c
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	This error is not an External related error. The External program is returning
	an error generated by Interrupt 24h in MS-DOS (Critical-Error Handler). This
	could have originated from MS-DOS or from the network shell, if a network drive
	is involved.
	
	In most cases where External gives an error code of this nature, it indicates a
	problem accessing a network drive.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	The Error Code= value consists of four digits. The last two digits are the most
	useful for identifying a problem affecting the External program. The hex values
	of 00 through 1A correspond with drives A through Z (00=A, 01=B, ..., 05=F, ...,
	0C=M, ..., 1A=Z).
	
	The Device Error= value is passed from the contents of the DI register, and only
	the lower byte of the DI register is valid. If the Device Error= value is not in
	the following table, it may be an invalid register entry that is getting corrupt
	in the process of generating the error.
	
	Error Code      Meaning
	-----------------------------------------------------------------------
	00h             Write-protected disk
	01h             Unknown unit
	02h             Drive not ready
	03h             Invalid command
	04h             Data error (CRC)
	05h             Bad request structure length
	06h             Seek error
	07h             Non-DOS disk
	08h             Sector not found
	09h             Printer out of paper
	0ah             Write fault
	0bh             Read fault
	0ch             General failure
	0fh             Invalid disk change (DOS 3 & later)
	
	The three most common Device Error= values returned in External are as follows:
	
	  Device Error=000c (General failure)
	  Device Error=0002 (Drive not ready)
	  Device Error=000A (Write fault)
	
	In this case, Error Code= 1005, Device Error=000C would translate to a general
	failure reading drive F:.
	
	Additional query words: 3.20 3.20a
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbMailSearch kbZNotKeyword3 kbMailPCN320
	Version           : WINDOWS:3.2
	
	=============================================================================
	
