---
layout: page
title: "Q136263: How to Use the Convert Source Code to Debug Convert Error"
permalink: /kb/136/Q136263/
---

## Q136263: How to Use the Convert Source Code to Debug Convert Error

	Article: Q136263
	Product(s): Microsoft FoxPro
	Version(s): 
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 01-NOV-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual FoxPro for Windows, Professional Edition 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	This article explains how to access the source code of the converter application
	to debug a conversion problem. Please note that Microsoft Technical Support will
	not support changes made to the source of the converter application.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The converter application (CONVERT.APP) is invoked when you open a FoxPro
	version 2.6 project, form, report, or label in Visual FoxPro. CONVERT.APP is
	written in Visual FoxPro, and the source code is included with the Professional
	Edition of Visual FoxPro. It is located in the TOOLS\CONVERT directory. To edit
	it, open the CONVERT.PJX project. The main program is CONVERT.PRG.
	
	Following are two complementary techniques you can use to isolate the source of
	errors you might receive while converting files to the Visual FoxPro version 3.0
	format.
	
	Use the CONVERT.H Header File
	-----------------------------
	
	CONVERT.H is a header file that contains constant definitions. In particular,
	CONVERT.H defines the strings that correspond to the error messages the
	converter generates. If you receive an error message and want to locate the
	source in the application, locate the string in CONVERT.H. Once you have the
	constant corresponding to the string, search for it in CONVERT.PRG.
	
	By looking for the constant in CONVERT.H, you can also discover whether the error
	is generated by the converter or generated during run time.
	
	View the Source Code of the Converter at Run Time
	-------------------------------------------------
	
	You can also view the source code of the converter application at run time. By
	default, the converter application turns DEBUG and TRACE off. To be able to
	access the Trace and Debug windows while the Converter is running, locate
	L_DEBUG and L_DEBUGSUSPEND in CONVERT.H. Change them from false (.F.) to true
	(.T.). Then you can open the CONVERT.PRG program in the Trace window to set a
	breakpoint.
	
	Modify the _CONVERT system variable to point to the CONVERT.PRG located in
	TOOLS\CONVERT. Ensure that the source code is available, and set a path to it so
	you can gain access to it in the Trace window. For example, use this code:
	
	     _CONVERT="C:\VFP\CONVERT.PRG"
	     SET PATH TO TOOLS\CONVERT
	
	Additional query words: 3.00 VFoxWin
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbVFPsearch kbAudDeveloper
	Version           : :
	
	=============================================================================
	
