---
layout: page
title: "Q231915: XFOR: T-shooting Data Migration with Notes Application Connector"
permalink: /kb/231/Q231915/
---

## Q231915: XFOR: T-shooting Data Migration with Notes Application Connector

	Article: Q231915
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): winnt:5.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 20-JUL-2000
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, version 5.5 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	If you run the Application Connector on a Lotus Notes database and some or all
	of the data does not migrate to Exchange Server and Outlook, you need to verify
	that the Connector has a valid and complete property map template (PFT) to use.
	The Connector uses the PFT to map fields in Notes forms to properties in
	Exchange Server forms, and migrates data accordingly. If a Notes field cannot be
	mapped to an Exchange Server field, the data is skipped.
	
	There are two ways to generate a PFT file: by using the Generate Template option
	in the Application Connector, or by running the Lotus Notes Application
	Conversion Assistant. The Application Connector only generates PFTs, which
	require no customization for simple Notes databases, for example, a document
	library. If the database has been customized, you must first run the Application
	Conversion Assistant before you attempt to migrate any data with the Application
	Connector. And you must use that PFT when you set up the connection. To use the
	Application Conversion Assistant's PFT, allow the Application Connector to
	generate a template, then choose Edit Template. Delete all the text and paste
	the entire contents of the Application Conversion Assistant's PFT into it, or
	copy the file generated by the Application Conversion Assistant to the
	Application Connector program directory.
	
	The Application Conversion Assistant analyzes the Notes database design and
	creates comparable forms in an Exchange Server public folder. Certain design
	elements do not translate between programs. Therefore, you should thoroughly
	review the generated Outlook forms and make any design modifications you
	require. Run the Application Connector only when you are satisfied with the form
	design. If you add or change any fields in your Outlook forms, you must reflect
	those changes in the PFT file by manually editing it. Check thoroughly for
	syntax errors. The general format of the PFT is as follows:
	
	The Prop Map entries in the [Form Map] section lists each Notes form, its
	corresponding Outlook message class, and the associated Prop Map for the
	entries. For each Prop Map entry there must be a section following that maps
	every Outlook field to its associated Notes field -- make sure these match,
	because if the Application Connector does not find a section for each Prop Map
	instance, that section is skipped and the data is not be migrated. For instance,
	in the example below, Form1 (representing the Notes form called SD and the
	Outlook message class called IPM.Post.Sales.Document) maps to Prop Map-SD. There
	must be a section header with that exact name below or that section will be
	skipped by the Application Connector.
	
	[Form Map]
	
	Form1=SD; IPM.Post.Sales Document; Prop Map-SD
	Form2=Chart; IPM.Post.Chart; Prop Map-Chart
	
	[Prop Map-SD]
	
	PropX1=BOTH; MySalesDoc; text; MySalesDoc; PT_STRING8; ;
	PropX2=BOTH; MySaleDate; time; MySaleDate; PT_SYSTIME; ;
	
	[Prop Map-Chart]
	
	Prop1=BOTH; Body; richtext; 0x10090102; ;
	PropX1=BOTH; ChartTitle; text; ChartTitle; PT_STRING8; ;
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	For more information on troubleshooting the Application Connector, set logging
	to the Debug level. To set logging levels, in the Exchange Server Administration
	program, on the Options menu, click Logging.
	
	More information on Exchange Server and Outlook Forms Development can be found at
	the following locations:
	
	  http://www.microsoft.com/exchange/developers.htm
	
	  http://www.microsoft.com/exchange/Collaboration.htm
	
	The Lotus Notes Application Conversion Assistant can be downloaded from:
	
	  http://www.microsoft.com/exchange/55/downloads/aca/default.asp
	
	Additional query words: mesa
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbExchangeSearch kbExchange550 kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : winnt:5.5
	Issue type        : kbinfo
	
	=============================================================================
	
