---
layout: page
title: "Q120582: Directory Replicator Service Will Not Start"
permalink: /kb/120/Q120582/
---

## Q120582: Directory Replicator Service Will Not Start

{% raw %}

	Article: Q120582
	Product(s): Microsoft Windows NT
	Version(s): 3.1,3.5,3.51,4.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbnetwork
	Last Modified: 20-AUG-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Windows NT Advanced Server 
	- Microsoft Windows NT Server versions 3.1, 3.5, 3.51, 4.0 
	- Microsoft Windows NT Workstation versions 3.1, 3.5, 3.51, 4.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	The Directory Replicator service fails to start. Event Viewer logs error 1057 or
	1069.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	These errors can result from incorrect configuration of the Directory Replicator
	service, from incorrect configuration information in the Registry, or because
	domain user account information has not been synchronized. The most likely
	reason is that the password is invalid or the account was not granted "Logon as
	a service" privileges. Verify that you have completed the following steps to set
	up the service:
	
	1. Create a domain user, for example "REPLUSER", with a proper password. Make it
	  a member of Domain Users, Backup operators, Replicator groups.
	
	  - Select Password never expires.
	  - Clear User must change password at next logon.
	  - Clear User cannot change password.
	  - Clear Account disabled.
	  - Allow all hours for logon.
	  - Do not define a user profile or login script.
	
	2. From User Manager for Domains, choose User Rights from the Policies menu.
	  Select Show advanced user rights and grant the Replicator group the "Logon as
	  a Service" right.
	
	3. From Server Manager for Domains, select the server and choose Services from
	  the Computer menu. A list of services running on the server appears. Select
	  the Directory Replicator service and choose Startup.
	
	4. Specify startup type to be automatic and mark the default logon as "This
	  account," choosing REPLUSER. Type the correct password for the user in the
	  Password and Confirm password fields.
	
	  NOTE: The only password verification performed at this step is to check that
	  the Password and Confirm Password fields are the same. It is possible to
	  enter an incorrect user password in these fields; however, when the Directory
	  Replicator service attempts to start it will fail.
	
	Attempt to start the Directory Replicator service. If the error still occurs
	after following the previous steps, there may be a problem with the Registry
	information.
	
	WARNING: Using Registry Editor incorrectly can cause serious, system-wide
	problems that may require you to reinstall Windows NT to correct them. Microsoft
	cannot guarantee that any problems resulting from the use of Registry Editor can
	be solved. Use this tool at your own risk.
	
	Edit the ObjectName value under the following key in the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE
	subtree:
	
	  \System\Current Control Set\Service\Replicator
	
	Make sure the data type of ObjectName is REG_SZ and the value is <domain
	name>\repluser (where <domain name> is the correct domain for the
	Repluser account.)
	
	After editing the Registry, attempt to start the Directory Replicator service
	again. If the error persists, there may be a problem with the User Account or
	the User Account database. Check the System Event Log for errors generated by
	the Netlogon service. Verify that the user account database is successfully
	synchronized on all of the servers in the domain. Proceed with troubleshooting
	domain synchronization problems if these errors are revealed.
	
	Additional query words: prodnt Replication repl
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbnetwork 
	Technology        : kbWinNTsearch kbWinNTWsearch kbWinNTW400 kbWinNTW400search kbWinNT351search kbWinNT350search kbWinNT400search kbWinNTW350 kbWinNTW350search kbWinNTW351search kbWinNTW351 kbWinNTW310 kbWinNTSsearch kbWinNTS400search kbWinNTS400 kbWinNTS351 kbWinNTS350 kbWinNTS310 kbWinNTAdvSerSearch kbWinNTS351search kbWinNTS350search kbWinNTS310search kbWinNT310Search kbWinNTW310Search
	Version           : :3.1,3.5,3.51,4.0
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
