---
layout: page
title: "Q118862: X400: How MS-DOS and Windows Priorities Convert to X.400"
permalink: /kb/118/Q118862/
---

## Q118862: X400: How MS-DOS and Windows Priorities Convert to X.400

{% raw %}

	Article: Q118862
	Product(s): Microsoft Mail For PC Networks
	Version(s): MS-DOS:3.2
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 12-NOV-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Mail Gateway to X.400, version 3.2 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	This article explains how priorities chosen in the MS-DOS and Windows client are
	converted to those within X.400 messages. The behavior is the same for both
	selectable X.400 profiles (NIST and A311).
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The most commonly used priority setting fields in X.400 are the P1 UMPDU
	Envelope Priority and the P2 IM-UAPDU Heading Importance field. These fields are
	generated by MS-DOS client priorities 1 and 5, and by Windows client priorities
	low and high. Priorities 2 through 4 (for the MS-DOS client), or normal (for the
	Windows client) do not generate the Priority or Importance fields.
	
	The Priority field (part of the P1 UMPDU Envelope) affects the delivery time of
	the message within the X.400 system. MTAs favor high priority to lower ones when
	forwarding messages to the next MTA.
	
	The Priority field can have these values:
	
	  0 (normal)
	  1 (non urgent)
	  2 (urgent)
	
	The Importance field is a part of the P2 IM-UAPDU Heading. This field does not
	affect the delivery time--it simply indicates a level of message importance in
	the recipient's user agent(UA).
	
	The Importance field can have these values:
	
	  0 (low)
	  1 (normal)
	  2 (high)
	
	The following tables illustrate how Microsoft Mail client priority settings
	(MS-DOS and Windows) are converted into X.400 settings:
	
	MS-DOS client   P1 Priority field     P2 Importance field
	-------------   -----------------     -------------------
	
	  1            1 (non urgent)          0 (low)
	  2            - (not generated)      - (not generated)
	  3            - (not generated)      - (not generated)
	  4            - (not generated)      - (not generated)
	  5            2 (urgent)             2 (high)
	
	
	WIN client   P1 Priority field     P2 Importance field
	----------   -----------------     -------------------
	low          1 (non urgent)          0 (low)
	normal       - (not generated)       - (not generated)
	high         2 (urgent)              2 (high)
	
	
	Additional query words: 3.20
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbMailSearch kbMailGateSearch kbZNotKeyword3 kbMailGatex400320
	Version           : MS-DOS:3.2
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
