---
layout: page
title: "Q182192: HOWTO: Rtwizx86.exe and Rtwizaxp.exe Create New Resource Types"
permalink: /kb/182/Q182192/
---

## Q182192: HOWTO: Rtwizx86.exe and Rtwizaxp.exe Create New Resource Types

	Article: Q182192
	Product(s): Microsoft C Compiler
	Version(s): 4.2b,5.0,6.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbfile kbSample kbwizard kbATL kbMFC kbVC420 kbVC500 kbVC600 kbCustomWizard kbGrpDSMFCA
	Last Modified: 26-JUL-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Enterprise Edition, versions 4.2b, 5.0, 6.0 
	- Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Professional Edition, versions 4.2b, 5.0, 6.0 
	- Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Learning Edition, version 6.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	Rtwizx86.exe is the Resource Type AppWizard for Microsoft Visual C++ on the X86
	platform. Rtwizaxp.exe is the Resource Type AppWizard for Microsoft Visual C++
	on the RISC platform.
	
	The Resource Type AppWizard helps you create a new resource type. The generated
	code provides the structure for resource type functionality, including the
	following:
	
	- DLL entry points and default functionality for each
	
	- Resources and code for Cluster Administrator extensions
	
	- Code for setting and retrieving private and common properties
	
	NOTE: The code generated by the Resource Type AppWizard requires ATL version 2.0
	or greater and MIDL version 3.00.44 or greater.
	
	To use the Resource Type AppWizard, you need to copy the files in this
	distribution to the appropriate location in the Visual C++ directory structure.
	If you are using Visual C++ 4.x, you should place Restypaw.awx and Restypaw.hlp
	in the C:\Msdev\Template Directory. If you are using Visual C++ 5.0, place
	Restyp5.awx and Restypaw.hlp in the C:\Program
	Files\Devstudio\Sharedide\Template Directory. Then, rename Restyp5.awx to
	Restypaw.awx. Now you can start Visual C++ and create a new project using the
	Resource Type App Wizard.
	
	NOTE: the paths above assume that Visual C++ 4.x is located in the C:\Msdev
	directory and that Visual C++ 5.0 is located in the C:\Program Files\Devstudio
	directory.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The following files are available for download from the Microsoft Download
	Center:
	
	Rtwizx86.exe
	
	Rtwizaxp.exe
	
	
	The Resource Type AppWizard is also available in the Platform SDK in the
	following directory:
	
	  C:\MSSDK\Samples\Winbase\Cluster\Template
	
	NOTE: the path above assumes that the SDK is located in the C:\MSSDK directory.
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	Microsoft Platform SDK: Using the Resource Type AppWizard
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbfile kbSample kbwizard kbATL kbMFC kbVC420 kbVC500 kbVC600 kbCustomWizard kbGrpDSMFCATL 
	Technology        : kbVCsearch kbAudDeveloper kbVC500 kbVC600 kbVC32bitSearch kbVC420b kbVC500Search
	Version           : :4.2b,5.0,6.0
	Issue type        : kbhowto
	
	=============================================================================
	
