---
layout: page
title: "Q85359: FAX: What the Microsoft Mail Gateway to Fax Does"
permalink: /kb/085/Q85359/
---

## Q85359: FAX: What the Microsoft Mail Gateway to Fax Does

{% raw %}

	Article: Q85359
	Product(s): Microsoft Mail For PC Networks
	Version(s): MS-DOS:3.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 28-OCT-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Mail Gateway to Fax, version 3.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	The Microsoft Mail Gateway to Fax transmits mail messages from Microsoft Mail to
	fax machines and receives items sent from fax machines.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	While the gateway is running, it uses the polling option set in the PROFILE.GLB
	file to poll the FAX gateway mailbag and poll the fax board for incoming
	messages.
	
	If the gateway detects any items queued in the mailbag, it will extract all the
	items queued (up to a maximum of 50), and place them in the fax board queue one
	at a time. From there, the fax board will transmit the items.
	
	What the gateway does when it detects any items queued in the fax board queue
	depends on the options set in the "FAXin" field of the PROFILE.GLB file:
	
	1. Field is blank: The gateway leaves any incoming faxes in the fax board queue.
	  You can use the fax board software to manage the queue.
	
	2. Select View in "FAXin": The gateway extracts all the items from the queue and
	  places the items in the mailbag defined in the "Administrator."
	
	3. Select Spool in "FAXin": The gateway extracts all the items from the queue
	  and spools the items to the printer.
	
	4. Select View+Spool in "FAXin": The gateway sends mail items to both the
	  defined mailbox and the print spooler.
	
	The print spooler is a program called PPB.EXE, located in the mail executables
	directory. Before an incoming fax can be printed, a printer driver must be
	generated by running the display program, DISPLAY.EXE, from the directory where
	the fax gateway will be run. If this is not done, the gateway will be unable to
	print.
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	"Microsoft Mail Gateway to FAX Administrator's Guide"
	
	
	Additional query words: 3.00 pcmail 2.1a
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbMailSearch kbMailGateSearch kbZNotKeyword3 kbMailGateFax300
	Version           : MS-DOS:3.0
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
