---
layout: page
title: "Q156513: INFO: Which Visual C++ Files to Add to Source-Code Control"
permalink: /kb/156/Q156513/
---

## Q156513: INFO: Which Visual C++ Files to Add to Source-Code Control

{% raw %}

	Article: Q156513
	Product(s): Microsoft SourceSafe
	Version(s): WINDOWS:4.0,4.0a,5.0,6.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbinterop kbSSafe400 kbSSafe500 kbSSafe600 kbVC400 kbVC500 kbVC600
	Last Modified: 04-MAY-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual SourceSafe for Windows, versions 5.0, 6.0 
	- Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, 16-bit, for Windows, version 4.0 
	- Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, 32-bit, for Windows 4.0 
	- Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, 16-bit, for Windows, version 4.0a 
	- Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, 32-bit, for Windows 4.0a 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	The general rule of thumb for adding files from a Visual C++ project to
	source-code control is: If the file is text, it is probably OK to add; if the
	file is binary, it probably should not be added.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	When checking in files, Visual C++ will automatically prompt you to check in all
	files in the Project Workspace Pane plus the project makefile (.mak). In most
	cases, these will simply be the source files needed to open and rebuild your
	Visual C++ project.
	
	You can add binary files to your Visual C++ project. They will appear in the
	Project Workspace Pane and Visual C++ will attempt to add them to source-code
	control. In some cases, this is desirable (for instance, bitmaps) and in other
	cases, this is not desirable (for instance, import libraries).
	
	Following is a (non-exhaustive) list of file extensions for files that should be
	added to source-code control under normal circumstances:
	
	  .mak, .dsp, .c, .rc, .rc2, .ico, .bmp, .txt, .def, .hpj, .bat, .rtf,
	  .odl, .inf, .reg, .cnt, .cpp, .cxx, .h, .hpp, .hxx, .inl, .tpl, .vtp,
	  and .mst.
	
	Usually, these files cannot be easily regenerated. There are issues that need to
	be considered when sharing a makefile through source-code control. These issues
	are discussed in the Visual C++ Online documentation. Please see the REFERENCES
	section below.
	
	Following is a (non-exhaustive) list of file extensions for files that should not
	be added to source-code control under normal circumstances :
	
	   .pch, .mdp, .ncb, .clw, .obj, .exe, .aps, .cpl, .awk, .exp, .lib, .idb,
	  .opt, .pdb, .map, .res, .ilk, .scc, .bsc, .sbr, .dll, and .tlb.
	
	Usually, these files are automatically regenerated by Visual C++ in opening,
	editing, and building the project.
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	For additional information, please see the following article in the Microsoft
	Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q132340 Common File Extensions Used by Visual C++
	
	
	"Maintaining Makefiles Under Source-Code Control" and "Putting Files Under
	Source-Code Control" from the Visual C++ Online documentation.
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbinterop kbSSafe400 kbSSafe500 kbSSafe600 kbVC400 kbVC500 kbVC600 
	Technology        : kbSSafeSearch kbAudDeveloper kbSSafe600 kbSSafe400 kbSSafe400a kbSSafe500 kbSSafe16bitSearch kbSSafe32bitSearch
	Version           : WINDOWS:4.0,4.0a,5.0,6.0
	Issue type        : kbinfo
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
