---
layout: page
title: "Q95456: Overview of Printer Font Metrics (PFM) Files"
permalink: /kb/095/Q95456/
---

## Q95456: Overview of Printer Font Metrics (PFM) Files

{% raw %}

	Article: Q95456
	Product(s): Microsoft Windows Device Driver Kit
	Version(s): 
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 12-MAR-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Windows 95 Driver Development Kit (DDK) 
	- Microsoft Windows 98 Driver Development Kit (DDK) 
	- Microsoft Windows ME Driver Development Kit (DDK) 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	Printer font metrics (PFM) files are the generic way of presenting device fonts
	information to a printer driver. Device fonts are resident on the printer; they
	are not generated by Microsoft Windows. PFM files provide a device-independent
	method of representing device fonts so that Windows or a printer driver can
	represent device-font-metrics data.
	
	Windows also supports printer-cartridge metrics (PCM) files. PCM files are a
	collection of PFM files.
	
	There are three tools that can be used to create PFM files:
	
	- The PFM Editor, explained in Chapter 3 (page 25) of the Microsoft Windows DDK
	  "Printer and Fonts Kit." The PFM Editor creates PFM (or PCM) files that are
	  compatible with Hewlett-Packard (HP) Printer Control Language (PCL) printers.
	
	- The PFM dialog box in UniTool, explained in Chapter 7 (page 104) of the
	  Microsoft Windows DDK "Minidriver Development Guide." The UniTool PFM dialog
	  box creates PFM files that can be used with all minidrivers.
	
	- The PFM file generator explained in Chapter 5 (page 53) of the Microsoft
	  Windows DDK "Printer and Fonts Kit." The PFM file generator builds PFM files
	  from recognized downloadable fonts. HP drivers use the PFM file generator.
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	A good overview of the data structures used in standard PFM files is given in:
	
	  Chapter 2 (page 9) of the Microsoft Windows DDK "Printers and Fonts Kit"
	
	An overview of the data structures used in PFM files generated by the Printer
	Font Installer (HP drivers) may be found in:
	
	  Chapter 5 (page 54) of the Microsoft Windows DDK "Printers and Fonts Kit"
	
	A description of the data structures used in PFM files generated by UniTool for
	minidrivers is presented in:
	
	  Chapter 7 (pages 103-115) of the Microsoft Windows DDK "Minidriver
	  Development Guide"
	
	  Appendix C of the Microsoft Windows DDK "Minidriver Development Guide"
	
	The data structures used in PFM files for PCL printers are documented in:
	
	  Chapter 4 (page 41) of the Microsoft Windows DDK "Printers and Fonts Kit"
	
	The data structures used in PFM files for PostScript printers are reviewed in:
	
	  Chapter 7 (page 98) of the Microsoft Windows DDK "Printers and Fonts Kit"
	
	Additional query words: 3.10
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbWinMEsearch kbAudDeveloper kbWin3xSearch kbWin98search kbWinDDKSearch kbWin98DDKSearch kbWinDDK310 kbWinMEDDK kbWin98DDK
	Version           : :
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
