---
layout: page
title: "Q152554: XADM: Viewing Event Viewer Files On Other Computers"
permalink: /kb/152/Q152554/
---

## Q152554: XADM: Viewing Event Viewer Files On Other Computers

	Article: Q152554
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): winnt:4.0,5.0,5.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbinterop exc4 exc5 exc55
	Last Modified: 21-JUL-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, versions 4.0, 5.0, 5.5 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	When you review Windows NT Event Viewer files on a different computer than the
	file was originally created on, you might see the following as part of the
	description:
	
	  The description for Event ID ( XXX ) in Source ( YYY ) could not be found. It
	  contains the following insertion string(s): ZZZ
	
	where XXX is the actual number for the event id, YYY is the service source name
	that logged the error, and YYY can be any string of data.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The above text appears when the Event Viewer cannot find the source file for the
	actual description of a message (usually a DLL). It can also occur when the
	message was generated by an installed service which is part of another
	component.
	
	This problem is very common when viewing event log entries for instances of the
	Microsoft Exchange PCMTA. For example, if there is a particular Microsoft
	Exchange Server that has the MSMail Connector installed and has an instance of
	PCMTA called "MTA to Vancouver PO", and you try to view event log entries for
	this PCMTA on a different computer that does not have an instance with this same
	name, you will see the above description.
	
	WORKAROUND
	==========
	
	On a computer that has the MSMail Connector installed, create a temporary
	instance of "MTA to Vancouver PO". There is no need to configure or start the
	service.
	
	-or-
	
	Close and reopen the event viewer on the remote computer to refresh the screen.
	
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbinterop exc4 exc5 exc55 
	Technology        : kbExchangeSearch kbExchange500 kbExchange550 kbExchange400 kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : winnt:4.0,5.0,5.5
	Issue type        : kbinfo
	
	=============================================================================
	
