---
layout: page
title: "Q172229: Stop 0x00000050 During WinNT 3.51 to 4.0 Upgrade on Compaq"
permalink: /kb/172/Q172229/
---

## Q172229: Stop 0x00000050 During WinNT 3.51 to 4.0 Upgrade on Compaq

	Article: Q172229
	Product(s): Microsoft Windows NT
	Version(s): WinNT:3.51,4.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbsetup
	Last Modified: 09-AUG-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Windows NT Workstation versions 3.51, 4.0 
	- Microsoft Windows NT Server versions 3.51, 4.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you upgrade from Windows NT 3.51 to Windows NT 4.0, the following error may
	occur:
	
	  Stop 0x00000050 ( 0xf4060000, 0x00000000, 0x00000000, 0x00000000 )
	  Page Fault in Non Paged Area.
	
	The first parameter may vary depending on the computer configuration, but the
	last three should be all 0's.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	This error is generated by files related to Compaq's Insight Manager version
	2.61 or 3.0.
	
	WORKAROUND
	==========
	
	Rename the following files found in %SystemRoot%\System32\Drivers;
	
	Cpqsdm.sys - which is the SCSI Device Manager
	Sysmgmt.sys - which is the Systems Management Driver
	
	After renaming the files, restart your computer to allow setup to proceed.
	
	NOTE: You may encounter additional error messages relating to Insight Manager.
	
	If the file system is NTFS, a parallel copy of Windows NT will need to be
	installed into a temporary directory. After Windows NT is installed and the
	files renamed, restart the computer and choose the original installation from
	the Boot.ini menu to continue the upgrade process.
	
	After the upgrade is completed, it is recommended that Insight Manager be
	reinstalled, apply any Windows NT 4.0 service packs that may be needed, and then
	apply the latest SSD from Compaq.
	
	It is recommended that for Windows NT 4.0, that Insight Manager version 3.3 or
	later be used.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Sysmgmt.sys - Systems Management Driver is responsible for logging critical
	errors about the computer in the server health logs.
	
	For more information about Insight Manager and Sysmgmt.sys, see the following
	articles in the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q135528 Event ID 1999 Appears When Using Compaq Insight Manager
	
	  Q146054 Stop 0xC0000263 When Upgrading to WinNT 3.51
	
	Additional query words: stop 0x50 setup
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbsetup 
	Technology        : kbWinNTsearch kbWinNTWsearch kbWinNTW400 kbWinNTW400search kbWinNT351search kbWinNT400search kbWinNTW351search kbWinNTW351 kbWinNTSsearch kbWinNTS400search kbWinNTS400 kbWinNTS351 kbWinNTS351search
	Version           : WinNT:3.51,4.0
	
	=============================================================================
	
