---
layout: page
title: "Q181559: XADM: Error -1201 Occurs When Starting the Information Store"
permalink: /kb/181/Q181559/
---

## Q181559: XADM: Error -1201 Occurs When Starting the Information Store

	Article: Q181559
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): winnt:4.0,5.0,5.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): exc4 exc5 exc55
	Last Modified: 28-JAN-2000
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, versions 4.0, 5.0, 5.5 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you try to start the Microsoft Exchange Server Information Store service,
	the service does not start and reports a server-specific error 4294966095. The
	Windows NT Event Viewer indicates that the service returned an error -1201.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	Error -1201 commonly occurs because of minor inconsistencies or corruption in
	the Priv.edb or Pub.edb files.
	
	It can also occur when the *.edb files are on drive C, the *.log files are on
	drive D, and there is some sort of unrecoverable hardware failure on drive D. At
	that point, you are in the situation described above because the store will be
	inconsistent and the log files are not available.
	
	WORKAROUND
	==========
	
	The recommended approach to resolving this problem is to restore the information
	store from the latest backup.
	
	If a recent backup is not available, or if restoring the backup will result in
	data loss (circular logging is enabled) follow these steps:
	
	1. Back up the entire Mdbdata folder.
	
	2. Make sure you have sufficient free disk space:
	
	  Exchange Server 4.0 and 5.0
	  ---------------------------
	
	  You need 110 percent of the larger of Priv.edb and Pub.edb files in free disk
	  space.
	
	  Exchange Server 5.5
	  -------------------
	
	  You need 25 percent of the larger of Priv.edb and Pub.edb files in free disk
	  space.
	
	3. Run the following commands from a Windows NT command prompt:
	
	  Exchange Server 4.0 and 5.0
	  ---------------------------
	
	  edbutil /d /r /ispriv /tx:\tempdfg.edb
	  edbutil /d /r /ispub /tx:\tempdfg.edb
	  isinteg -fix -pri
	  isinteg -fix -pub
	
	  Exchange Server 5.5
	  -------------------
	
	  eseutil /p /ispriv /tx:\tempdfg.edb
	  eseutil /p /ispub /tx:\tempdfg.edb
	  isinteg -fix -pri -test alltests
	  isinteg -fix -pub -test alltests
	
	  where x: is the drive containing the required free disk space.
	
	  NOTE: When the Information Store service has started, after the repair
	  process, make a full online backup immediately.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Error -1201 refers to the Jet error: JET_errDatabaseDuplicate
	
	The Windows NT Event Viewer Application log may also report Event ID 9037
	generated by the information store.
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : exc4 exc5 exc55 
	Technology        : kbExchangeSearch kbExchange500 kbExchange550 kbExchange400 kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : winnt:4.0,5.0,5.5
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	
