---
layout: page
title: "Q170628: MTG: MTA Error: Mailbag Truncated by Up_retries"
permalink: /kb/170/Q170628/
---

## Q170628: MTG: MTA Error: Mailbag Truncated by Up_retries

{% raw %}

	Article: Q170628
	Product(s): Microsoft Mail For PC Networks
	Version(s): WINDOWS:3.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbusage
	Last Modified: 30-OCT-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Mail for PC Networks, version 3.5 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	Mail delivery fails and the Session.log of External shows similar entries:
	
	  A Critical error has occurred
	  Data: Error Code~0c, Device Error _14
	  Mailbag truncated by up_retries
	  Mail transfer failed.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	There is a problem accessing the postoffice because External has failed to read
	from disk possibly because of a network connection problem. The error "mailbag
	truncated by up_retries" means External had a problem at the time it was
	processing mail in the referenced mailbag. These errors together suggest a
	failure in the network connection.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	A network trace may be necessary to pinpoint the connection failure. There is a
	short-term workaround that works with the MS-DOS MTA only. A setting in the
	External.ini will allow External to restart when it encounters a critcal error.
	The setting is:
	
	  ReBootOnce
	
	This is not a fix but can be used as a workaround until the cause of the problem
	can be determined and resolved.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	External will return an error generated by Interrupt 24h in MS-DOS
	(Critical-Error Handler).
	
	The "device error = c" means "general failure". Here is the list of other
	possible values:
	
	  code  meaning
	  ----  -----------------------------------
	  00h   write-protected disk
	  01h   unknown unit
	  02h   drive not ready
	  03h   invalid command
	  04h   data error (CRC)
	  05h   bad request structure length
	  06h   seek error
	  07h   non-DOS disk
	  08h   sector not found
	  09h   printer out of paper
	  0ah   write fault
	  0bh   read fault
	  0ch   general failure
	  0fh   invalid disk change (dos 3 & later)
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbusage 
	Technology        : kbMailSearch kbZNotKeyword3 kbMailPCN350
	Version           : WINDOWS:3.5
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
