---
layout: page
title: "Q135517: How to Attach a Menu to a Form"
permalink: /kb/135/Q135517/
---

## Q135517: How to Attach a Menu to a Form

	Article: Q135517
	Product(s): Microsoft FoxPro
	Version(s): 
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 25-AUG-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual FoxPro for Windows, version 3.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	This article shows by example how to add a menu to a Visual FoxPro form so that
	the menu appears on the form rather than in the default position across the top
	of the screen.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	In Visual FoxPro, menus are not objects that can be instantiated (created) on or
	in a form. Nevertheless, you can add a menu directly to the form so that it
	appears on the form underneath the title bar rather than in the default system
	menu position across the top of the screen. To do this, use the DEFINE MENU
	command as shown in the following example.
	
	Step-by-Step Example
	--------------------
	
	1. Create a form named Form1.
	
	2. In the Activate event procedure for the form, include the following code to
	  define the menu bar, and menu lists. Include the ACTIVATE MENU command.
	
	     CLEAR
	     SET SYSMENU SAVE
	     SET SYSMENU TO
	     ON KEY LABEL ESC KEYBOARD CHR(13)
	     DEFINE MENU example BAR in window FORM1
	     DEFINE PAD convpad OF example PROMPT '\<Conversions' COLOR SCHEME 3;
	        KEY ALT+C, ''
	     ON PAD convpad OF example ACTIVATE POPUP conversion
	     DEFINE POPUP conversion MARGIN RELATIVE SHADOW COLOR SCHEME 4
	     DEFINE BAR 1 OF conversion PROMPT 'Ar\<ea' KEY CTRL+E, '^E'
	     DEFINE BAR 2 OF conversion PROMPT '\<Length' KEY CTRL+L, '^L'
	     DEFINE BAR 3 OF conversion PROMPT 'Ma\<ss' KEY CTRL+S, '^S'
	     DEFINE BAR 4 OF conversion PROMPT 'Spee\<d'KEY CTRL+D, '^D'
	     DEFINE BAR 5 OF conversion PROMPT '\<Temperature' KEY CTRL+T, '^T'
	     DEFINE BAR 6 OF conversion PROMPT 'T\<ime' KEY CTRL+I, '^I'
	     DEFINE BAR 7 OF conversion PROMPT 'Volu\<me' KEY CTRL+M, '^M'
	     ON SELECTION POPUP conversion DO choice IN defimenu;
	        WITH PROMPT(), POPUP()
	     ACTIVATE MENU example nowait
	
	3. In the Unload event procedure of the form, include the following code to
	  deactivate the menu and restore the default system menu.
	
	     DEACTIVATE MENU example
	     RELEASE MENU example EXTENDED
	     SET SYSMENU TO DEFAULT
	     ON KEY LABEL ESC
	
	4. Save and run the form. A menu bar with a single option (Conversion) will
	  appear just below the title of the form. The default system menu bar will
	  disappear. When the form is released, the defined menu will also be released
	  and the default system menu bar restored.
	
	NOTE: It is possible to use code generated by the Menu Designer, but you would
	need to edit the generated code before using it. The generated menu is not a new
	menu; it is still the system menu. You must alter the code to specifically name
	and define the menu, to activate the menu, and to save and clear the system
	menu. It is easier to generate the menu, copy and paste the generated menu code
	into the Activate event procedure code, and then modify the code there.
	
	Any procedures executed by individual menu items are best included in the
	existing procedure files for the project or database.
	
	Additional query words: VFoxWin
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbVFPsearch kbAudDeveloper kbVFP300
	
	=============================================================================
	
