---
layout: page
title: "Q191927: HOWTO: Use GENHTML to Create HTML from a Visual FoxPro Report"
permalink: /kb/191/Q191927/
---

## Q191927: HOWTO: Use GENHTML to Create HTML from a Visual FoxPro Report

{% raw %}

	Article: Q191927
	Product(s): Microsoft FoxPro
	Version(s): WINDOWS:6.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 06-AUG-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual FoxPro for Windows, version 6.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	Genhtml.prg is a Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) generation program that ships
	with Visual FoxPro 6.0. When executed, the Genhtml.prg creates a text file that
	contains a hypertext markup language version of a form, menu, report, or table.
	The Genhtml.prg is executed when the "Save as HTML" option is selected from the
	File menu.
	
	This article demonstrates how to use the Genhtml.prg file to create a tabbed HTML
	file from a Visual FoxPro report.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	1. Create a program file named Htmlrepo.prg containing the following code:
	
	        USE HOME(2)+"DATA\CUSTOMER"
	        CREATE REPO EXAMPLE FROM CUSTOMER
	        CLOSE ALL
	        DO (_GENHTML) WITH "EXAMPLE","EXAMPLE.FRX"
	        CLOSE ALL
	
	        * Set the class library to the _hyperlink class
	        SET CLASSLIB TO home()+"ffc\_hyperlink.vcx"
	        public ohyperlinkobject
	        * Create a form with a hyperlink
	        ohyperlinkobject=CREATEOBJECT('hyperform')
	        ohyperlinkobject.SHOW
	
	        DEFINE CLASS hyperform AS FORM
	           TOP           = 0
	           LEFT          = 0
	           HEIGHT        = 75
	           WIDTH         = 250
	           DOCREATE      = .T.
	           CAPTION       = "Display Example Report"
	           NAME          = "Form1"
	           SHOWTIPS      = .T.
	
	           ADD OBJECT _hyperlinklabel1 AS _hyperlinklabel WITH ;
	              LEFT       = 25, ;
	              TOP        = 10, ;
	              HEIGHT     = 25, ;
	              VISIBLE    = .T., ;
	              FONTNAME   = "Times New Roman", ;
	              FONTSIZE   = 14, ;
	              FONTITALIC = .T., ;
	              AUTOSIZE   = .T., ;
	              ctarget    = sys(5)+sys(2003)+"\EXAMPLE.HTM", ;
	              CAPTION    = "Example Report", ;
	              lnewwindow = .T., ;
	              NAME       = "_HYPERLINKLABEL1"
	
	        ENDDEFINE
	        * End Code
	
	2. When the Form captioned "Display Example Table" displays, click the hyperlink
	  label to display the HTML generated by the GENHTML program.
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	Visual FoxPro 6.0 Books Online: Programmer's Guide; Chapter 13 Compiling an
	Application.
	
	For additional information, please see the following article in the Microsoft
	Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q185657 HOWTO: Utilize the Hyperlink Foundation Class
	
	(c) Microsoft Corporation 1998. All Rights Reserved. Contributions by John Desch,
	Microsoft Corporation.
	
	
	Additional query words: kbhtml kbVFp600 kbInternet kbReportWriter kbXBase kbMiscTools
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbVFPsearch kbAudDeveloper kbVFP600
	Version           : WINDOWS:6.0
	Issue type        : kbhowto
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
