---
layout: page
title: "Q125732: Cursor Created by User or ODBC Has EXCLUSIVE Status"
permalink: /kb/125/Q125732/
---

## Q125732: Cursor Created by User or ODBC Has EXCLUSIVE Status

	Article: Q125732
	Product(s): Microsoft FoxPro
	Version(s): MS-DOS:2.6a; WINDOWS:2.6a,3.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 12-FEB-2000
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual FoxPro for Windows, version 3.0 
	- Microsoft FoxPro for Windows, version 2.6a 
	- Microsoft FoxPro for MS-DOS, version 2.6a 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	The CREATE CURSOR command opens a temporary, memory-based table with EXCLUSIVE
	status. This command may be employed by the programmer or the user, or it may be
	generated by the RQBE tool when the user selects the output destination as a
	cursor with a particular name or when the ODBC SELECT generates a result-set
	cursor.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	This is important when the status of EXCLUSIVE bears on the behavior of the
	cursor, its data, or the data of related tables when used with the cursor's data
	in a browse.
	
	The cursor is a temporary object uniquely located in the workarea of the user
	whose SELECT-SQL created it. Hence, it is not seen by other workstations on the
	network. By default, it is exclusive to the workstation upon which it resides.
	This is demonstrated by example in this article.
	
	The use of data from the cursor combined with data from other tables in a
	multiple-column browse causes editing of any of the data in the browse to be
	disabled. When data from non-cursor fields in the browse is edited, FoxPro
	issues a "Record is not locked" message and does not post the change to the
	record from which the field in the browse is displayed.
	
	Example to Demonstrate Status of the Cursor
	-------------------------------------------
	
	Create and run the following program, named TEST.PRG:
	
	     CREATE CURSOR test1 (field1 c(10))       && Field length is arbitrary
	     SELECT test1
	     IF UPPER(SYS(2011)) == 'EXCLUSIVE'
	        WAIT WINDOW "Cursor is Exclusive"
	     ELSE
	        WAIT WINDOW "Cursor is not Exclusive"
	     ENDIF
	
	The first message "Cursor is Exclusive" will appear in the WAIT WINDOW.
	
	Additional query words: VFoxWin FoxWin FoxDos SELECT-SQL locked
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbVFPsearch kbAudDeveloper kbFoxproSearch kbZNotKeyword3 kbFoxPro260aDOS kbFoxPro260a kbVFP300
	Version           : MS-DOS:2.6a; WINDOWS:2.6a,3.0
	
	=============================================================================
	
