---
layout: page
title: "Q258697: INFO: Single SQL Connection Supports Only One Active Firehose"
permalink: /kb/258/Q258697/
---

## Q258697: INFO: Single SQL Connection Supports Only One Active Firehose

{% raw %}

	Article: Q258697
	Product(s): Microsoft Visual Basic for Windows
	Version(s): 2.1,2.1 SP1,2.1 SP2,2.5,5.0,6.0,7.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbADO210 kbVBp500 kbVBp600 kbSQLServ700 kbGrpDSVBDB kbADO210sp2 kbMDAC210 kbMDAC210SP2
	Last Modified: 11-JAN-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Professional Edition for Windows, versions 5.0, 6.0 
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Enterprise Edition for Windows, versions 5.0, 6.0 
	- Microsoft SQL Server version 7.0 
	- ActiveX Data Objects (ADO), versions 2.1, 2.1 SP1, 2.1 SP2, 2.5 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	SQL Server can support only one active firehose (server-side, forward-only,
	read-only) recordset per connection. If you try to open a second firehose ADO
	recordset on an ADO connection before processing or looping through all the
	records of the original firehose recordset, ADO silently opens an additional
	database connection to SQL Server. This additional connection is opened to
	manage the second ADO firehose recordset.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	A single SQL Server connection can only support one active command. While a
	firehose cursor is the fastest means to get a Recordset from the server, it does
	so by not creating a cursor. The effect of not creating a cursor forces the
	connection to be dedicated between the client and server until all the records
	have been fetched. Since a cursor was not established, there is no way to
	maintain the current record in the Recordset and, as a result, the connection is
	forced to service the request for the firehose cursor until the end of file
	(EOF) has been reached. You can change the behavior by specifying a cursor, but
	this incurs the overhead of maintaining a cursor, which is typically not all
	that great in comparison to the build fetch.
	
	The information in this article applies to SQL Server, Sybase, and a few other
	database systems that support only one active command per connection. It does
	not apply to Jet or Oracle, because both of these support multiple active
	statements per connection.
	
	NOTE: The third-party products that are discussed in this article are
	manufactured by companies that are independent of Microsoft. Microsoft makes no
	warranty, implied or otherwise, regarding the performance or reliability of
	these products.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Steps to Reproduce Behavior
	---------------------------
	
	The following example is based on the Sample SQL Server 7.0 Northwind database.
	You need to modify the ADO connection string to point to your installation of
	SQL Server and supply the required authentication information.
	
	1. Open a new Standard EXE project in Visual Basic. Form1 is created by default.
	
	2. Set a Project reference to the Microsoft ActiveX Data Objects 2.X Library.
	
	3. Drag and drop two CommandButtons on to Form1.
	
	4. Name the first CommandButton cmdOpenRecordsets and set its Caption property
	  to Open Firehose Recordsets.
	
	5. Name the second CommandButton cmdCloseConnection and set its Caption property
	  to Close Database Connection.
	
	6. Make the following declarations in the General Declarations section of the
	  form:
	
	  Dim cnNWind As ADODB.Connection
	  Dim rsCustomers As ADODB.Recordset
	  Dim rsSuppliers As ADODB.Recordset
	
	7. Cut and paste the following code in the Click event of cmdOpenRecordsets. Be
	  sure to provide the correct name of your SQL Server:
	
	  Set cnNWind = New ADODB.Connection
	  cnNWind.CursorLocation = adUseServer
	
	  cnNWind.Open "Provider=SQLOLEDB;Data Source=<Name of your SQL Server>;Initial Catalog=Northwind;Trusted_Connection=yes"
	
	  Set rsCustomers = New ADODB.Recordset
	  rsCustomers.Open "Select * from Customers", cnNWind, adOpenForwardOnly, adLockReadOnly<BR/>
	  'Do While Not rsCustomers.EOF
	  'rsCustomers.MoveNext
	  'Loop
	  Set rsSuppliers = New ADODB.Recordset
	  rsSuppliers.Open "Select * from Suppliers", cnNWind, adOpenKeyset, adLockReadOnly
	
	8. Cut and paste the following code in the Click event of cmdCloseConnection:
	
	  cnNWind.Close
	  Set cnNWind = Nothing
	
	9. Save the project.
	
	10. Start an instance of SQL Server Query Analyzer to monitor the connections
	  that are being generated by the ADO code.
	
	11. Run the project from the Visual Basic IDE, and then click Open Firehose
	  Recordsets.
	
	12. Run the sp_who statement in SQL Server Query Analyzer to list the active
	  processes and connections. Note that your Visual Basic application has
	  generated two connections, one to manage each of the firehose cursors.
	
	13. Click Close Database Connection to close and release the ADO connection
	  object and to stop the application.
	
	14. Uncomment the following lines of code in the Click event of
	  cmdOpenRecordsets:
	
	  'Do While Not rsCustomers.EOF
	  'rsCustomers.MoveNext
	  'Loop
	
	15. Save the project and run it from the Visual Basic IDE.
	
	16. Click Open Firehose Recordsets, and then switch to the SQL Server Query
	  Analyzer window to monitor the active connections.
	
	17. When you run sp_who, note that your application has only one active open
	  connection to SQL Server.
	
	This behavior is applicable only to firehose cursors. Other ADO cursor types do
	not generate additional connections as seen here. Another method to avoid
	multiple connections from being generated if you must use forward-only,
	read-only recordsets is to set the CursorLocation of the ADO recordset objects
	to adUseClient. This results in the creation of a client-side recordset that is
	not managed by SQL Server, and the connection object is not tied up managing the
	recordset.
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbADO210 kbVBp500 kbVBp600 kbSQLServ700 kbGrpDSVBDB kbADO210sp2 kbMDAC210 kbMDAC210SP2 kbMDAC250 kbADO250 
	Technology        : kbVBSearch kbSQLServSearch kbAudDeveloper kbADOsearch kbADO210 kbADO210sp1 kbADO210sp2 kbADO250 kbZNotKeyword6 kbSQLServ700 kbZNotKeyword2 kbVB500Search kbVB600Search kbVBA500 kbVBA600 kbVB500 kbVB600
	Version           : :2.1,2.1 SP1,2.1 SP2,2.5,5.0,6.0,7.0
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
