---
layout: page
title: "Q193931: XIMS: NT Events Generated by Microsoft Exchange Chat Service"
permalink: /kb/193/Q193931/
---

## Q193931: XIMS: NT Events Generated by Microsoft Exchange Chat Service

{% raw %}

	Article: Q193931
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): 5.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 26-JUL-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, version 5.5 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	This article lists the Windows NT Events that may be generated by the Microsoft
	Exchange Chat Services included with Exchange Server 5.5 SP1 and Microsoft
	Commercial Internet Server (MCIS) 2.0. These events may appear in the Windows NT
	Event Log.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The Windows NT events are:
	
	  EVENT: CHAT_EVENT_CANNOT_INITIALIZE_SECURITY
	  DESCRIPTION: CHAT Server could not initialize its security. The error
	  message is in the data field.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_CANNOT_INITIALIZE_WINSOCK
	  DESCRIPTION: CHAT Server could not initialize the socket library. The
	  error message is in the data field.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_OUT_OF_MEMORY
	  DESCRIPTION:  %1 was unable to initialize due to a shortage of available
	  memory.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_SERVICE_STARTED
	  DESCRIPTION:  Microsoft Exchange Chat service has been started.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_SERVICE_STOPPED
	  DESCRIPTION:  Microsoft Exchange Chat service has been stopped.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_INIT_BANS
	  DESCRIPTION:  The Chat server could not initialize the ban list from the
	  registry.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_INIT_CLASSES
	  DESCRIPTION:  The Chat server could not initialize the class list from
	  the registry.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_INIT_CONFIG
	  DESCRIPTION: The Chat server could not initialize the service
	  configuration from the registry.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_INIT_MONITOR
	  DESCRIPTION:  The Chat server could not initialize the connection
	  timeout monitor logic.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_INIT_TCPCONN
	  DESCRIPTION:  The Chat server could not initialize the TCP support
	  logic.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_INIT_UDPCONN
	  DESCRIPTION:  The Chat server could not initialize the UDP support
	  logic.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_INIT_EXTENSIBILITY
	  DESCRIPTION:  The Chat server could not initialize the extensibility
	  interface.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_TERM_TCPCONN
	  DESCRIPTION:  The Chat server could not terminate the TCP support logic.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_SERVICE_BADEP
	  DESCRIPTION:  The Channel Service %1 does not contain the
	  'MicCreateService' EntryPoint.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_BAD_PARAM_REGTYPE
	  DESCRIPTION:  The value %1 under the ChatSvc\Parameters registry key is
	  in error.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_BAD_REGDWORD
	  DESCRIPTION:  The registry value %1 is not in DWORD format.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_BAD_REGSZ
	  DESCRIPTION:  The registry value %1 is not in string format.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_BAD_REGCHANNELNAME
	  DESCRIPTION:  The persistent channel %1 name field is in error.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_BAD_REGCHANNELKEYWORD
	  DESCRIPTION:  The persistent channel %1 keyword field is in error.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_BAD_REGCHANNELHOSTKEY
	  DESCRIPTION:  The persistent channel %1 hostkey field is in error.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_BAD_REGCHANNELACCOUNT
	  DESCRIPTION:  The persistent channel %1 account field is in error.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_BAD_REGCHANNELTOPIC
	  DESCRIPTION:  The persistent channel %1 topic field is in error.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_BAD_REGCHANNELSUBJECT
	  DESCRIPTION:  The persistent channel %1 subject field is in error.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_BAD_REGCHANNELMODES
	  DESCRIPTION:  The persistent channel %1 modes field is in error.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_BAD_REGCHANNELCLIENTGUID
	  DESCRIPTION:  The persistent channel %1 client GUID field is in error.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_BAD_REGCHANNELSERVICEGUID
	  DESCRIPTIONS:  The persistent channel %1 service GUID field is in error.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_BAD_REGSERVICEPATH
	  DESCRIPTION:  The specified channel service %1 path is in error.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_SERVICE_LOAD
	  DESCRIPTION:  The channel service %1 failed to load correctly. Channel
	  service error.
	
	  EVENT: CHAT_EVENT_SERVICE_SETCHANNEL
	  DESCRIPTION:  The channel service %1 failed to initialize correctly.
	  Channel service error.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_CLASS_READERROR
	  DESCRIPTION:  Not able to fully read in the class %1 from the registry.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_PORTAL_MULTIUPLINKS
	  DESCRIPTION:  Multiple uplink portal connections detected. Only the
	  first connection used.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_PORTAL_BADMESSAGE
	  DESCRIPTION:  A bad server message was received from portal %1 of type
	  %2.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_PORTAL_CIRCULARLINK
	  DESCRIPTION:  A circular server network link was from portal %1.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_PORTAL_DESYNC
	  DESCRIPTION:  The portal connection from %1 was disconnected due to a
	  desync connection %2.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_PORTAL_CONNECTED
	  DESCRIPTION:  The portal %1 connected.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_PORTAL_DISCONNECTED
	  DESCRIPTION:  The portal %1 disconnected.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_PORTAL_DUPNSID
	  DESCRIPTION:  A duplicate NSID was received from the portal %1.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_PORTAL_UNKNOWNIPADDRESS
	  DESCRIPTION:  A server connection was attempted on IP %1, but no portal
	  entry exists.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_PORTAL_BADCONNECT
	  DESCRIPTION:  Unable to connect to the uplink server %1. Server will
	  retry in 5 minutes.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_PORTAL_BADVERSION
	  DESCRIPTION:  Unable to connect to the server %1, version conflict.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_SYSTEM_CREATETHREAD
	  DESCRIPTION:  The Chat server was not able to create a thread due to
	  lack of system resources.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_SYSTEM_CREATESOCKET
	  DESCRIPTION:  The Chat server was not able to create a socket due to
	  lack of system resources, %1.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_SYSTEM_BINDSOCKET
	  DESCRIPTION:  The Chat server was not able to bind to a socket due to
	  lack of system resources, %1.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_SYSTEM_LISTENSOCKET
	  DESCRIPTION:  The Chat server was not able to listen to a socket due to
	  lack of system resources, %1.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_SYSTEM_ACCEPTSOCKET
	  DESCRIPTION:  The Chat server was not able to accept a socket due to
	  lack of system resources, %1.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_SYSTEM_OUTOFMEMORY
	  DESCRIPTION:  The Chat server was not able to %1 due to lack of memory.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_PORTAL_DISCONNECTED_OUTPUT
	  DESCRIPTION:  The portal %1 disconnected due to output saturation.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_PORTAL_DUPLICATE
	  DESCRIPTION:  A server connection was attempted on IP %1, but it is
	  already connected.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_PORTAL_DISCONNECTED_TIMEOUT
	  DESCRIPTION:  The portal %1 disconnected due to timeout.
	
	  EVENT:  CHAT_EVENT_PORTAL_DISCONNECTED_ERROR
	  DESCRIPTION:  The portal %1 disconnected due to socket error.
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbZNotKeyword6 kbExchangeSearch kbExchange550 kbExchangeClientSearch kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : :5.5
	Issue type        : kbinfo
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
