---
layout: page
title: "Q167887: SMS: SNMP Trap Translator Fails After Applying WinNT 4.0 SP 2"
permalink: /kb/167/Q167887/
---

## Q167887: SMS: SNMP Trap Translator Fails After Applying WinNT 4.0 SP 2

	Article: Q167887
	Product(s): Microsoft Systems Management Server
	Version(s): winnt:1.2
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbnetwork kbSNMP smssnmp
	Last Modified: 31-JUL-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Systems Management Server version 1.2 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	The Systems Management Server Trap Receiver is a service that makes SNMP trap
	information available to Systems Management Server. The Systems Management
	Server Trap Receiver can receive traps from any suitable SNMP source, including
	the Event to Trap Translator. Traps generated by the Event to Trap Translator
	will display a Windows NT event source name for the event that triggered the
	trap.
	
	After you apply Windows NT 4.0 Service Pack 2, the Event to Trap Translator does
	not function properly. Consequently, no traps are sent or written to the Systems
	Management Server database.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	Windows NT 4.0 Service Pack 2 replaced two files: Snmp.exe and Snmpapi.dll.
	
	WORKAROUND
	==========
	
	To work around this problem, replace these files with those from the Windows NT
	4.0 (no service pack) release.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a problem in Systems Management Server
	version 1.2. We are researching this problem and will post new information here
	in the Microsoft Knowledge Base as it becomes available.
	
	Additional query words: sms prodsms
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbnetwork kbSNMP smssnmp 
	Technology        : kbSMSSearch kbSMS120
	Version           : winnt:1.2
	Issue type        : kbbug
	
	=============================================================================
	
