---
layout: page
title: "Q184624: XFOR: cc:Mail Connector Does Not Return Attachments On NDRs"
permalink: /kb/184/Q184624/
---

## Q184624: XFOR: cc:Mail Connector Does Not Return Attachments On NDRs

{% raw %}

	Article: Q184624
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): WINDOWS:5.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 10-APR-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, version 5.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When the cc:Mail connector is unable to resolve a cc:Mail address, it sends an
	NDR (non-delivery report) back to the sender. This NDR, however, is generic and
	lists all the cc:Mail recipients. The NDR does not indicate which recipient
	address is bad.
	
	The NDR contains the following:
	
	- "This messages is From: cc:Mail Connector Interchange."
	
	- The subject line is the original subject line preceded by the text
	
	- "Undeliverable:"
	
	- A new text body is created to notify the user that the message could not be
	  delivered to one or more recipient addresses.
	
	- The original text body of the messages is also attached to the messages.
	
	- All other text and file attachments are discarded.
	
	In cc:Mail when a message is addressed to a non existent user at a remote
	postoffice (PO), the message is forwarded to the remote PO, and may be rejected
	prior to delivery by the cc:Mail router session that connects directly to that
	remote PO. The message is returned to the sender with the following changes:
	
	- The "Forwarded by" (or From) block is changed to the user's name.
	
	- A forwarding history is created in the message to indicate the reason why the
	  mail was returned.
	
	- The subject line is replaced by "Message not deliverable."
	
	- The original subject is contained in the forwarding history.
	
	- The message body is not changed.
	
	The NDRs generated by cc:Mail back to the mailbox on the Exchange Server computer
	list the unresolved recipients.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a problem in Exchange Server version 5.0. We
	are researching this problem and will post new information here in the Microsoft
	Knowledge Base as it becomes available.
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbExchangeSearch kbExchange500 kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : WINDOWS:5.0
	Issue type        : kbbug
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
