---
layout: page
title: "Q70249: Max Identifier Length May Cause Mixed C/MASM Conflict"
permalink: /kb/070/Q70249/
---

## Q70249: Max Identifier Length May Cause Mixed C/MASM Conflict

	Article: Q70249
	Product(s): Microsoft Macro Assembler
	Version(s): 5.1,5.1a
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 06-MAY-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Macro Assembler (MASM), versions 5.1, 5.1a 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	The Microsoft Macro Assembler (MASM) versions 5.1 and 5.1a allow identifiers to
	have a length of 31 characters. The Microsoft C Compiler versions 5.1, 6.0, and
	6.0a also allow identifiers to have a length of up to 31 characters. However,
	the C compiler adds an implied leading underscore, which may make the total
	length of an identifier 32 characters.
	
	The above limits may cause a problem when performing mixed-language programming
	where a C identifier that is 31-characters long needs to be recognized by a
	Macro Assembler module. The C identifier of 31 characters becomes 32 characters
	because of the added leading underscore, and the assembler can only recognize 31
	characters. If this occurs, a "L2029: unresolved external" error will be
	generated by the linker when it does not locate a symbol with the truncated
	name.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	To get the assembler routine to match the C identifier of 31 characters, you can
	do one of the following:
	
	1. Use the .MODEL directive and specify the C language type. For example:
	
	        .MODEL small,c  ; The C language type specifies C conventions
	
	  The C language type specifies C naming and calling conventions. It will allow
	  the use of a 31-character identifier and also add the implied leading
	  underscore.
	
	2. Modify the C program to shorten the length of the variable's name.
	
	3. Update to Macro Assembler version 6.0. Identifiers may be up to 247
	  characters long with version 6.0.
	
	Additional query words: kbinf 5.10 5.10a
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbMASMsearch kbAudDeveloper kbMASM510 kbMASM510a
	Version           : :5.1,5.1a
	
	=============================================================================
	
