---
layout: page
title: "Q306447: Sysprep.exe Generates Duplicate Computer Names"
permalink: kb/306/Q306447/
---

## Q306447: Sysprep.exe Generates Duplicate Computer Names

	Article: Q306447
	Product(s): Microsoft Windows NT
	Version(s): 4.0,4.0 SP4,4.0 SP5,4.0 SP6,4.0 SP6a
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbenv kbsetup kbtool
	Last Modified: 08-MAY-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Windows NT Server versions 4.0, 4.0 SP4, 4.0 SP5, 4.0 SP6, 4.0 SP6a 
	- Microsoft Windows NT Workstation versions 4.0, 4.0 SP5, 4.0 SP6, 4.0 SP6a 
	- Microsoft Windows NT Server, Enterprise Edition versions 4.0, 4.0 SP4, 4.0 SP5, 4.0 SP6, 4.0 SP6a 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you deploy an image on your network computers, the computer names that are
	generated by Sysprep.exe may be duplicates. After this occurs, you may receive
	an error message that indicates that the computer names that were generated by
	Sysprep.exe already exist on your network.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	This problem can occur after you used the Sysprep.exe tool to prepare a sample
	computer for cloning, and you used the "ComputerName=Auto" entry in the
	Sysprep.inf file to generate the random computer names. This problem can occur
	because the Windows NT 4.0 Sysprep.exe file version 1.1 does not use the proper
	logic to generate random computer names.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	A supported fix is now available from Microsoft, but it is only intended to
	correct the problem described in this article and should be applied only to
	systems experiencing this specific problem.
	
	To resolve this problem, contact Microsoft Product Support Services to obtain the
	fix. For a complete list of Microsoft Product Support Services phone numbers and
	information on support costs, please go to the following address on the World
	Wide Web:
	
	  http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=fh;EN-US;CNTACTMS
	
	NOTE: In special cases, charges that are normally incurred for support calls may
	be canceled, if a Microsoft Support Professional determines that a specific
	update will resolve your problem. Normal support costs will apply to additional
	support questions and issues that do not qualify for the specific update in
	question.
	
	The English version of this fix should have the following file attributes or
	later:
	
	  Date        Time         Size     File name     Platform
	  --------------------------------------------------------
	  06-Sep-2001 10:52        245,008  Sysprep.exe   Intel
	
	NOTE: Because of file dependencies, this hotfix requires Microsoft Windows NT 4.0
	Service Pack 6a.
	
	
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a problem in Windows NT 4.0.
	
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbenv kbsetup kbtool 
	Technology        : kbWinNTsearch kbWinNTWsearch kbWinNTW400 kbWinNTW400search kbWinNT400search kbWinNTW400sp5 kbWinNTSsearch kbWinNTSEntSearch kbWinNTSEnt400sp6 kbWinNTSEnt400sp5 kbWinNTSEnt400sp4 kbWinNTSEnt400 kbWinNTS400sp6 kbWinNTS400sp5 kbWinNTS400sp4 kbWinNTS400search kbWinNTS400 kbWinNTW400sp6 kbWinNTSEnt400SP6a kbWinNTW400SP6a
	Version           : :4.0,4.0 SP4,4.0 SP5,4.0 SP6,4.0 SP6a
	Hardware          : ALPHA x86
	Issue type        : kbbug
	Solution Type     : kbfix
	
	=============================================================================
	
