---
layout: page
title: "Q181719: PRB: &quot;Cannot Access the ClassView Information File...&quot;"
permalink: /kb/181/Q181719/
---

## Q181719: PRB: &quot;Cannot Access the ClassView Information File...&quot;

	Article: Q181719
	Product(s): Microsoft SourceSafe
	Version(s): 
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbSSafe500 kbSSafe600
	Last Modified: 01-MAY-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual SourceSafe for Windows, versions 5.0, 6.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When opening a source-code controlled, Visual C++ project workspace, you receive
	following the message:
	
	  Cannot access the ClassView information file. ClassView information will not
	  be available.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	The Visual C++ project's "No Compile Browser" file, or .ncb file, is marked as
	read-only.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	Changing the read-only attribute of the <prjname>.ncb to read/write is the
	only step necessary to resolve this problem.
	
	NOTE: The most common reason the .ncb file would be marked read-only in the first
	place is because the file was manually added to Visual SourceSafe (VSS). This
	file was never intended to be placed under source control and will need to be
	removed (destroyed) from the project within the VSS Explorer. Otherwise, VSS may
	change the file attribute back to read-only.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	This behavior is by design.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The .ncb file contains information generated by the parser that is used by
	ClassView, WizardBar, and Component Gallery. If this file is accidentally or
	deliberately deleted, it is automatically regenerated.
	
	Steps to Reproduce Behavior
	---------------------------
	
	1. Open Microsoft Developer Studio and from the File menu, click New.
	
	2. From the Projects tab, create a new Visual C++ project using the Microsoft
	  Foundation Class (MFC) AppWizard (.dll) in a new workspace.
	
	3. Close the workspace.
	
	4. Open the Visual SourceSafe Explorer.
	
	5. Add the Visual C++ project to Visual SourceSafe (VSS) by using a drag-
	  and-drop operation to move the project's directory from Windows Explorer onto
	  the root project ($/) in the VSS Explorer.
	
	6. Now that the project has been added to Visual SourceSafe, all the project
	  files should be marked read-only.
	
	7. Reopen the workspace in Developer Studio.
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	For additional information, please see the following article in the Microsoft
	Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q156513 INFO: Which Visual C++ Files to Add to Source-Code Control
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbSSafe500 kbSSafe600 
	Technology        : kbSSafeSearch kbAudDeveloper kbSSafe600 kbSSafe500
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	
