---
layout: page
title: "Q120606: BUG: Path Name Greater Than 256 Characters May Cause Errors"
permalink: /kb/120/Q120606/
---

## Q120606: BUG: Path Name Greater Than 256 Characters May Cause Errors

{% raw %}

	Article: Q120606
	Product(s): Microsoft FoxPro
	Version(s): 2.5b,2.5c,2.6a,3.0b
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kberrmsg
	Last Modified: 08-FEB-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft FoxPro for Macintosh, versions 2.5b, 2.5c, 2.6a 
	- Microsoft Visual FoxPro for Macintosh, version 3.0b 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	If a path and filename greater than 256 characters is used, one of the following
	error messages may occur:
	
	  
	
	- Invalid path or filename.
	
	- Required clause not present in command.
	
	- Syntax error.
	
	- Unrecognized phrase/keyword in command.
	
	- File already exists.
	
	- File '<volume_name>:System Folder:<table_name>' does not exist.
	
	- Finder error: math coprocessor not installed. (On PowerPC.)
	
	- Sorry, a system error occurred "Microsoft FoxPro" type 11
	
	
	NOTE: These error messages were generated by attempting to save or run a program
	file, or open a table in a folder whose path was greater than 256 characters.
	
	WORKAROUND
	==========
	
	To work around this problem, do one of the following:
	
	- Use the SET VOLUME command to use a shorter, MS-DOS-style path.
	
	  -or-
	
	- Move the file(s) to a folder with a shorter path.
	
	  -or-
	
	- Rename the folder(s) and/or file in the path so that they have shorter names.
	
	STATUS
	======
	
	Microsoft has confirmed this to be a problem in the Microsoft products listed at
	the beginning of this article.
	
	Additional query words: VFoxMac FoxMac 2.50b 2.50c errmsg err msg very extremely long path names lengthy buglist2.50b buglist2.50c buglist2.60a buglist3.00b akz
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kberrmsg 
	Technology        : kbHWMAC kbOSMAC kbVFPsearch kbAudDeveloper kbFoxproSearch kbFoxPro250bMac kbFoxPro260aMac kbFoxPro250cMac kbVFP300bMac
	Version           : :2.5b,2.5c,2.6a,3.0b
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
