---
layout: page
title: "Q229769: How Discovery Data Manager Determines When to Generate a CCR"
permalink: /kb/229/Q229769/
---

## Q229769: How Discovery Data Manager Determines When to Generate a CCR

{% raw %}

	Article: Q229769
	Product(s): Microsoft Systems Management Server
	Version(s): 2.0,2.0 SP1,2.0 SP2,2.0 SP3
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbsetup kbClient kbConfig kbServer kbsms200 kbDiscovery
	Last Modified: 16-OCT-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Systems Management Server versions 2.0, 2.0 SP1, 2.0 SP2, 2.0 SP3 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	When you use Microsoft Windows NT Remote Client Installation, whether or not the
	Systems Management Server (SMS) client is "pushed" to a client depends on the
	Discovery Data Manager thread's evaluation of the discovery data record (DDR)
	file that is processed for that system. DDRs can be generated by several
	different methods, including by Network Discovery, Windows Networking Logon
	Discovery, or Windows NT Server Discovery cause Discovery Data Manager to
	generate a client configuration request (CCR). Discovery Data Manager verifies
	that the prospective client is located within the site's boundaries before
	Discovery Data Manager generates a CCR. The CCR triggers the Client
	Configuration Manager (CCM) thread to attempt to install the SMS client on the
	target Windows NT-based computer.
	
	NOTE: For the purposes of this article, Microsoft Windows 2000-based computers
	are identical to Windows NT-based computers. For example, Windows NT Remote
	Client Installation also remotely installs to Windows 2000-based computers.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	The following criteria must be met for Discovery Data Manager to determine that
	a CCR should be created:
	
	- The architecture must be "System." Discovery Data Manager does not generate
	  CCRs for routers, printers, or other network devices.
	
	- The resource must not already be an existing client. If the resource is
	  currently in the SMS database as a client, a CCR is not created.
	
	- The resource must be assigned to the current site. The subnet of the target
	  computer must be in the site boundaries for the site.
	
	- The operating system type property must be "Windows NT." When you use Network
	  Discovery as your discovery method, the "Topology, client, and client
	  operating system" check box must be selected on the General tab in the
	  Network Discovery properties.
	
	- Windows NT Remote Client Installation must be enabled. You can configure
	  Windows NT Remote Client Installation to push the SMS client to Windows
	  NT-based workstations, Windows NT-based member servers, and Windows NT-based
	  domain controllers. Windows NT Server Discovery cannot be disabled and causes
	  CCRs to be generated for all site systems.
	
	- The DDR must contain at least one property that allows a remote registry
	  connection. Valid properties are NetBIOS name and IP or IPX Address.
	
	- The computer name must not be present in the ExcludeServers registry key.
	
	For additional information about a registry key that you can use to ensure that
	the SMS client is not installed on a computer by Windows NT Remote Client
	Installation, click the article number below to view the article in the
	Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q207729 SMS: Excluding Computers from Windows NT Remote Client Installation
	
	For functional flow and troubleshooting information, see the "NT Remote Client
	Installation Flow" section of Chapter 24 in the Microsoft BackOffice Resource
	Kit, volume 4.5.
	
	
	Additional query words: prodsms DDM
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbsetup kbClient kbConfig kbServer kbsms200 kbDiscovery 
	Technology        : kbSMSSearch kbSMS200 kbSMS200SP1 kbSMS200SP2 kbSMS200SP3
	Version           : :2.0,2.0 SP1,2.0 SP2,2.0 SP3
	Issue type        : kbinfo
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
