---
layout: page
title: "Q244523: XCLN: Unable to Open Your Default E-Mail Folders"
permalink: /kb/244/Q244523/
---

## Q244523: XCLN: Unable to Open Your Default E-Mail Folders

{% raw %}

	Article: Q244523
	Product(s): Microsoft Exchange
	Version(s): 5.5
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbinterop kbnetwork exc55
	Last Modified: 04-JUN-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Exchange Server, version 5.5 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you attempt to log on to another user's mailbox while you are logged on to
	the Microsoft Windows NT domain with an account that does not have permissions
	for the other user's mailbox, you may receive the following error messages (even
	though you enter valid credentials for the other user's mailbox when you are
	prompted):
	
	   - Unable to open your default e-mail folders. You do not have permission to log
	  on.
	
	   - Would you like to open your default File System folder instead?
	
	For example, User A is logged on to the Windows NT domain as User A, but wants to
	access User B's mailbox. User A does not have permissions for User B's mailbox.
	When User A is prompted for credentials, User A enters User B's Windows NT
	account, domain, and password, but cannot access User B's mailbox.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	This problem can occur if named pipes (ncacn_np) is used as the Microsoft
	Exchange Client remote procedure call (RPC) protocol.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	To resolve this problem, use one of the following methods:
	
	- Remove the static mapping for either the Exchange Server directory service or
	  information store service, as applicable.
	
	- Statically map the ports for either the Exchange Server directory service or
	  information store service, as applicable, to a port that is not in use.
	  Microsoft recommends that you map to a port outside the ephemeral range (the
	  ephemeral port range is from port 1024 to port 5000, including port 1024 and
	  port 5000).
	
	- Run the net use command to the IPC$ share on the Exchange Server computer and
	  use the credentials of the user whose mailbox you want to access.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	RPC that uses named pipes (ncacn_np) establishes its security identity by using
	the credentials of the user who is logged on to the Windows NT domain. Because
	named pipe connections are established by the redirector to the server, the
	security identity is established before RPC communication. As a result, RPC uses
	the security context that is established by the redirector, and the dialog boxes
	generated by Microsoft Outlook that request security credentials do not override
	this security context. Because the user who is logged on does not have
	permissions for the target mailbox, the logon process to that mailbox does not
	work.
	
	You can specify the ncacn_np protocol sequence by modifying the RPC_Binding_Order
	registry value. For additional information, click the article number below to
	view the article in the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q163576 XGEN: Changing the RPC Binding Order
	
	Occasionally the named pipes protocol sequence is used because other protocol
	sequences did not work.
	
	Other protocol sequences in the RPC_Binding_Order value may not work if either
	the Exchange Server directory service or information store service is configured
	to use a static IP address that is in use at the time that the service starts.
	This prevents the service from binding to that port, which essentially disables
	that protocol for use with that service.
	
	
	For additional information, click the article numbers below to view the articles
	in the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q194952 XADM: Statically Mapped Port Limitations for Exchange Server
	
	  Q155831 XADM: Setting TCP/IP Ports for Exchange and Outlook Client
	  Connections Through a Firewall
	
	  Q148732 XADM: Setting TCP/IP Port Numbers for Internet Firewalls
	
	  Q176466 XGEN: TCP Ports and Microsoft Exchange: In-depth Discussion
	
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbinterop kbnetwork exc55 
	Technology        : kbExchangeSearch kbExchange550 kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : :5.5
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
