---
layout: page
title: "Q170970: WD97: Macro to Generate List of Available Fonts in Word"
permalink: kb/170/Q170970/
---

## Q170970: WD97: Macro to Generate List of Available Fonts in Word

	Article: Q170970
	Product(s): Word 97 for Windows
	Version(s): WINDOWS:97
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbdta kbdtacode kbmacroexample word8 kbwordvba word97 kbFont
	Last Modified: 13-MAY-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Word 97 for Windows 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	This article contains a Visual Basic for Applications macro that generates a
	list of the fonts available to Microsoft Word, and displays a sample of each
	font.
	
	The font list generated by this macro depends on the printer selected in the
	Print dialog box(On the File menu click Print.)
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Microsoft provides programming examples for illustration only, without warranty
	either expressed or implied, including, but not limited to, the implied
	warranties of merchantability and/or fitness for a particular purpose. This
	article assumes that you are familiar with the programming language being
	demonstrated and the tools used to create and debug procedures. Microsoft
	support professionals can help explain the functionality of a particular
	procedure, but they will not modify these examples to provide added
	functionality or construct procedures to meet your specific needs. If you have
	limited programming experience, you may want to contact a Microsoft Certified
	Partner or the Microsoft fee-based consulting line at (800) 936-5200. For more
	information about Microsoft Certified Partners, please visit the following
	Microsoft Web site:
	
	  http://www.microsoft.com/partner/referral/
	
	For more information about the support options that are available and about how
	to contact Microsoft, visit the following Microsoft Web site:
	
	  http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=fh;EN-US;CNTACTMS
	
	The following sample Visual Basic for Applications macro creates a new blank
	document, and inserts a sample of each available font:
	
	     Sub ListFonts()
	        Dim varFont As Variant
	        ' Speeds macro processing and suppresses display.
	        Application.ScreenUpdating = False
	        ' Create new document.
	        Documents.Add Template:="normal"
	        ' Loop through each available font.
	        For Each varFont In FontNames
	           With Selection
	              ' Format for name of font.
	              .Font.Name = "times new roman"
	              .Font.Bold = True
	              .Font.Underline = True
	              ' Insert Font name.
	              .TypeText varFont
	              ' Insert a new paragraph after the Font Name.
	              .InsertParagraphAfter
	              ' Move to the new paragraph.
	              .MoveDown unit:=wdParagraph, Count:=1, Extend:=wdMove
	              ' Format for the font example.
	              .Font.Bold = False
	              .Font.Underline = False
	              .Font.Name = varFont
	              ' Enter example text(Alphabetic characters.)
	              .TypeText "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz"
	              ' Insert a new paragraph.
	              .InsertParagraphAfter
	              ' Move to the new paragraph.
	              .MoveDown unit:=wdParagraph, Count:=1, Extend:=wdMove
	              ' Insert example text(Numeric characters.)
	              .TypeText "0123456789?$%&()[]*_-=+/<>"
	              ' Insert two new paragraphs and move down.
	              .InsertParagraphAfter
	              .InsertParagraphAfter
	              .MoveDown unit:=wdParagraph, Count:=1, Extend:=wdMove
	           End With
	        Next varFont
	        Application.ScreenUpdating = True
	     End Sub
	
	For additional information, please see the following article in the Microsoft
	Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q173707 OFF97: How to Run Sample Code from Knowledge Base Articles
	
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	For more information about getting help with Visual Basic for Applications,
	please see the following article in the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q163435 VBA: Programming Resources for Visual Basic for Applications
	
	Additional query words: wordcon vb vba vbe generator preview fontsamplegenerator
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbdta kbdtacode kbmacroexample word8 kbwordvba word97 kbFont 
	Technology        : kbWordSearch kbWord97 kbWord97Search kbZNotKeyword2
	Version           : WINDOWS:97
	Issue type        : kbhowto
	
	=============================================================================
	
