---
layout: page
title: "Q184311: Remote Key Request Generation Affected by Schannel.dll"
permalink: kb/184/Q184311/
---

## Q184311: Remote Key Request Generation Affected by Schannel.dll

	Article: Q184311
	Product(s): Internet Information Server
	Version(s): WINNT:1.0,2.0,3.0,4.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): 
	Last Modified: 06-MAY-1999
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Internet Information Server versions 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you install a certificate to a Microsoft Internet Information Server
	computer generated by the HTML-based Key Manager, there will be no indication of
	an error. However, HTTPS access will not be possible. Turning off the "Require
	secure channel SSL" option in the Microsoft Internet Service Manager, and
	stopping and restarting the service, will enable access via HTTP.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	The security strength of the Schannel.dll file that exists on the remote
	computer where the key request was generated does not match the security
	strength of the server on which the certificate is installed.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	The security strength of the Schannel.dll file on the remote HTML requesting
	computer must match the security strength of the Schannel.dll file on the server
	that will use the generated certificate.
	
	WORKAROUND
	==========
	
	Although it is possible to generate a functional key request from a computer
	other than the one on which it will be used, using the computer that will
	eventually use the key to create the request will avoid security mismatches.
	When you use remote HTML management, it is imperative to check and match the
	versions of Schannel.dll. To do this, use the following procedure:
	
	1. Open Windows NT Explorer on the computer creating the request file.
	
	2. Go to the <System root>\System32 subdirectory.
	
	3. Highlight the file and open the Properties page. If the file is not found,
	  then go to the Tools menu, check the Options and make sure that the View All
	  Files option is checked.
	
	4. Click the Version tab on the Schannel.dll properties page.
	
	5. Security strength is easiest defined by the description. If the description
	  references "(Export)," then the DLL is the 40-bit encryption version. If the
	  description references "(US and Canada," then the DLL is the 128-bit
	  encryption version. (Note: The missing right bracket on the US and Canada
	  version is not a typographical error.)
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          :  
	Technology        : kbiisSearch kbiis400 kbiis300 kbiis200 kbiis100
	Version           : WINNT:1.0,2.0,3.0,4.0
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	
