---
layout: page
title: "Q198536: HOWTO: #include the Localized MFC Resources in an EXE or DLL"
permalink: /kb/198/Q198536/
---

## Q198536: HOWTO: #include the Localized MFC Resources in an EXE or DLL

{% raw %}

	Article: Q198536
	Product(s): Microsoft C Compiler
	Version(s): 4.0,4.1,4.2,5.0,6.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbIntl kbMFC kbResource kbVC400 kbVC500 kbVC600 kbLocalization kbDSupport kbIntlDev kbG
	Last Modified: 10-JUN-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- The Microsoft Foundation Classes (MFC), used with:
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Editions, versions 4.0, 4.1 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Enterprise Edition, versions 4.2, 5.0, 6.0 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Professional Edition, versions 4.2, 5.0, 6.0 
	   - Microsoft Visual C++, 32-bit Learning Edition, version 6.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SUMMARY
	=======
	
	MFC provides resource files localized for certain locales, in the MFC\SRC\L.*
	and MFC\Include\L.* directories. This article describes how to modify the
	project settings and resource file to use these localized MFC resources.
	
	NOTE: The information in this article does not apply to resources for ActiveX
	controls.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	Steps to include the localized resources:
	
	1. On the Project menu, click Project Settings. In the Project Settings dialog
	  box, select the Resource property page. Remove the _AFXDLL preprocessor
	  definition. Click OK on the property sheet.
	
	2. Open the string table using the Resource Editor and remove all the non
	  application-specific strings generated by AppWizard. For example, if this
	  application is an AppWizard-generated application, remove all the entries for
	  the IDs from ID_FILE_NEW to the end of the string table. Strings for
	  IDR_MAINFRAME, IDR_MYPROJTYPE, AFX_IDS_APP_TITLE, and AFX_IDS_IDLEMESSAGE are
	  application-specific, and therefore localized strings are not provided by the
	  MFC resource files.
	
	3. On the View menu, click Resource Includes. In the Compile-time directives
	  window, do the following:
	
	  a. Set the primary language ID and the sub-language ID appropriately in the
	     LANGUAGE statement. The appropriate values can be found in the
	     ...\vc\include\winnt.h file. Note that the values specified in the
	     LANGUAGE statement must be base-10. The values in Winnt.h are base-16.
	
	Example: LANUGAGE 11, 1  // Specifies standard French
	
	  b. Make sure that the code page specified in the #pragma code_page statement
	     is correct. For ANSI English and most European languages the code page is
	     1252; for Japanese it is 932.
	
	  c. Modify the existing statements that include resources used by the MFC
	     framework. These resources are located in the appropriate localized
	     ..\vc\mfc\include directory. For example, change the following
	
	           #include "afxres.rc"
	           #include "afxprint.rc"
	           #include "afxolecl.rc"
	           #include "afxolesv.rc"
	
	     to the following:
	
	           #include "l.fra/afxres.rc"
	           #include "l.fra/afxprint.rc"
	           #include "l.fra/afxolecl.rc"
	           #include "l.fra/afxolesv.rc"
	
	     (A project will use the Afxolecl.rc and Afxolesv.rc files only if they are
	     OLE client and/or server applications.)
	
	  d. The Indicate.rc and Prompts.rc files contain the key-state indicators and
	     menu-prompt strings that are displayed on the status bar by MFC. These
	     files are located in the ..\vc\mfc\src directory. To include these files,
	     #include them and explicitly specify their location. For example:
	
	           #include "c:\VC\mfc\src\l.fra\prompts.rc"
	           #include "c:\VC\mfc\src\l.fra\indicate.rc"
	
	  e. Click OK to close the Resource Includes dialog box.
	
	4. Build the application or DLL.
	
	REFERENCES
	==========
	
	Technical Note 23 "Standard MFC Resources"
	
	For additional information, please see the following article in the Microsoft
	Knowledge Base:
	
	Q200555 Localizing Stock ActiveX Property Pages With MFC Rescues
	
	
	(c) Microsoft Corporation 1998, All Rights Reserved. Contributions by Isaac
	Varon, Microsoft Corporation.
	
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbIntl kbMFC kbResource kbVC400 kbVC500 kbVC600 kbLocalization kbDSupport kbIntlDev kbGrpDSMFCATL 
	Technology        : kbAudDeveloper kbMFC
	Version           : :4.0,4.1,4.2,5.0,6.0
	Issue type        : kbhowto
	
	=============================================================================
	

{% endraw %}
