---
layout: page
title: "Q214539: PRB: Netscape Returns &quot;Data Missing&quot; After Resizing the Browser"
permalink: /kb/214/Q214539/
---

## Q214539: PRB: Netscape Returns &quot;Data Missing&quot; After Resizing the Browser

	Article: Q214539
	Product(s): Microsoft Visual Basic for Windows
	Version(s): 6.0
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kb3rdparty kberrmsg kbASP kbVBp600 kbWebClasses kbGrpDSASP kbDSupport
	Last Modified: 25-APR-2001
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Learning Edition for Windows, version 6.0 
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Professional Edition for Windows, version 6.0 
	- Microsoft Visual Basic Enterprise Edition for Windows, version 6.0 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When resizing the Netscape Navigator Web browser on a page generated by a
	WebClass, the following error occurs:
	
	  Data Missing
	  This document resulted from a POST operation and has expired from the cache.
	  If you wish you can repost the form data to recreate the document by pressing
	  the reload button.
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	When the Netscape Navigator Web browser is resized, the browser attempts to
	retreive the page from its cache when repainting the window. However, the host
	Active Server Page (ASP) page used for instantiating the WebClass sets the
	Expiration date and time of the page to expire immediately and the browser will
	not cache the page. Also, since the requested page was retrieved as a result of
	an HTTP POST (for example, form submission) and the Web browser does not cache
	the POSTed data, Netscape Navigator is unable to repaint the page without first
	re-posting the data and requesting the page from the server.
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	You need to change the expiration data/time of the page via the Expires HTTP
	Header. You can do so by adding the following code to the ASP page generated by
	the WebClass, or in a WebItem in your WebClass:
	
	  Response.ExpiresAbsolute = #10/06/2000# 'A future expiration date
	
	NOTE: In general, it is not recommended that you change the ASP page generated by
	the WebClass. Also note, you will need to add this code each time you recompile
	the WebClass because the ASP page will be overwritten.
	
	The third-party products discussed in this article are manufactured by vendors
	independent of Microsoft; we make no warranty, implied or otherwise, regarding
	these products' performance or reliability.
	
	Additional query words:
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kb3rdparty kberrmsg kbASP kbVBp600 kbWebClasses kbGrpDSASP kbDSupport 
	Technology        : kbVBSearch kbAudDeveloper kbZNotKeyword6 kbZNotKeyword2 kbVB600Search kbVBA600 kbVB600
	Version           : :6.0
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	
