---
layout: page
title: "Q264976: Client Computer Is Slow to Respond After Running Boot32wn.exe"
permalink: /kb/264/Q264976/
---

## Q264976: Client Computer Is Slow to Respond After Running Boot32wn.exe

	Article: Q264976
	Product(s): Microsoft Systems Management Server
	Version(s): 2.0,2.0 SP1,2.0 SP2
	Operating System(s): 
	Keyword(s): kbsms200 kbsms200bug
	Last Modified: 06-AUG-2002
	
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	The information in this article applies to:
	
	- Microsoft Systems Management Server versions 2.0, 2.0 SP1, 2.0 SP2 
	-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	
	SYMPTOMS
	========
	
	When you run the Boot32wn.exe tool or another process on a Systems Management
	Server (SMS)-based client computer, the computer service may be very slow. The
	following errors may be reported in the Wn_logon.log file:
	
	  Writing local TCF file C:\WINDOWS\MS\SMS\CORE\DATA\temp.tcf
	  $$<C:\WINDOWS\MS\SMS\CORE\BIN\BOOT32WN.EXE>
	  <Wed May 10 09:15:12.360 2000 >
	  <thread=4294758987 (0xFFFCD24B)>
	
	  Couldn't find line in the FILE SOURCE section of
	  \\MY_MACHINE\SMSLOGON\config\CopyLog.tcf
	  $$<C:\WINDOWS\MS\SMS\CORE\BIN\BOOT32WN.EXE>
	  <Wed May 10 09:15:12.470 2000>
	  <thread=4294758987 (0xFFFCD24B)>
	
	  Retry in 10 mins...
	  <$$C:\WINDOWS\MS\SMS\CORE\BIN\BOOT32WN.EXE>
	  <Wed May 10 09:15:12.470 2000>
	  <thread=4294758987 (0xFFFCD24B)>
	
	CAUSE
	=====
	
	This issue can occur if the client belongs to a site where the logon script has
	been modified to run Smsls.bat during the logon process. According to the log
	file, the computer attempts to connect again after 10 minutes. It continues to
	attempt to connect seven times. This process causes the client to run slowly for
	the first 70 minutes that it is logged on to the site.
	
	The error may result from a corrupt Copylog.tcf file on the primary domain
	controller (PDC) or another domain controller. You can find the .tcf file on any
	SMSLOGON share in the Config folder. If possible, check the domain controller
	that authenticated the client during its last logon attempt.
	
	A normal Copylog.tcf file contains the following entries in the File Source
	section:
	
	  [FILE SOURCE]
	  x86.bin\smsboot1.exe=ZZZ
	  x86.bin\boot32wn.exe=ZZZ
	  X86.BIN\CLICORE.EXE=ZZZ
	  x86.bin\00000409\SMSMan.exe=ZZZ
	  x86.bin\boot16wn.exe=ZZZ
	  x86.bin\00000409\SMSMan16.exe=ZZZ
	  x86.bin\CLICOR16.EXE=ZZZ
	  x86.bin\bootdwn.exe=ZZZ
	  x86.bin\00000409\Manboot.exe=ZZZ
	  x86.bin\Slwnt16.exe=ZZZ
	  x86.bin\Slwnt32.exe=ZZZ
	  alpha.bin\smsboot1.exe=ZZZ
	  alpha.bin\boot32wn.exe=ZZZ
	  alpha.BIN\CLICORE.EXE=ZZZ
	  alpha.bin\00000409\SMSMan.exe=ZZZ
	  alpha.bin\Slwnt32.exe=ZZZ
	  SITES\ZZZ\cli_inst.cfg=ZZZ
	  i386\NTLGDSCA.EXE=ZZZ
	  i386\BASEUTIL.DLL=ZZZ
	  i386\BASEOBJ.DLL=ZZZ
	  i386\SMSPERF.DLL=ZZZ
	  i386\MFC42.DLL=ZZZ
	  i386\MSVCRT.DLL=ZZZ
	  ALPHA\NTLGDSCA.EXE=ZZZ
	  ALPHA\BASEUTIL.DLL=ZZZ
	  ALPHA\BASEOBJ.DLL=ZZZ
	  ALPHA\SMSPERF.DLL=ZZZ
	  ALPHA\MFC42.DLL=ZZZ
	  ALPHA\MSVCRT.DLL=ZZZ
	  SITES\ZZZ\NETCONF.NCF=ZZZ
	  SITES\ZZZ\caplist.ini=ZZZ
	  x86.bin\00000409\RegNec98.exe=ZZZ
	
	The following text is from the File Source section in a corrupt Copylog.tcf
	file:
	
	  [FILE SOURCE]
	  SITES\ZZZ\cli_inst.cfg=ZZZ
	  SITES\ZZZ\NETCONF.NCF=ZZZ
	  SITES\ZZZ\caplist.ini=ZZZ
	
	RESOLUTION
	==========
	
	To resolve this issue, use either of the following methods:
	
	Method One
	----------
	
	1. Copy the Copylog.tcf file to another folder and open the file with a text
	  editor such as Microsoft Notepad.
	
	  NOTE: If you have an existing logon point that has not been written over or if
	  you have a copy from a good backup, then you should be able to restore the
	  file easily.
	
	2. Revise the file so that the entries match the entries that are listed in a
	  normal Copylog.tcf file.
	
	3. Set all of the site code entries to that of the senior site.
	
	4. Save the revised Copylog.tcf file in the Config folder in the SMSLOGON share
	  on the PDC.
	
	5. Start the Logon Server Manager's update cycle. The correct file then
	  overwrites the corrupt .tcf files in the domain.
	
	Method Two
	----------
	
	1. Delete the files that are referenced in the .tcf file from the PDC's SMSLOGON
	  share.
	
	2. Force the Logon Server Manager cycle to run on the senior site. The deleted
	  files are then replaced and the entries are written back to the .tcf file
	  again.
	
	The .tcf file is not generated by the senior site, rather it is generated by the
	Logon Server Manager cycle from each site. The Logon Server Manager from each
	site builds a list of files that it needs on the PDC's logon point and then
	writes this list to its unique .lcf file. The Logon Server Manager then writes
	the .lcf file to the Smslogon\Sitescfg folder. First, the PDC is updated on the
	senior site, and then each logon point is updated.
	
	MORE INFORMATION
	================
	
	This issue can be caused by different versions of the Nt_logon.dll file that
	exist among sites installed in the same domain. This situation may occur if you
	apply any fix on a site that includes an updated Nt_logon.dll file. Until SMS
	Service Pack 2 (SP2), the Logon Server Manager did not check to verify the
	entries in the .tcf file. Currently, the entries are verified by the Logon
	Server Manager and under certain conditions, for example, if there is a line
	missing from the .tcf file, incorrect syntax, a missing file, newer files being
	written, or a different site code, the line is updated by the Logon Server
	Manager.
	
	For additional information about setting or determining the senior site, click
	the article number below to view the article in the Microsoft Knowledge Base:
	
	  Q235726 Specifying Senior Site for Windows NT Logon Point Management
	
	
	Additional query words: prodsms
	
	======================================================================
	Keywords          : kbsms200 kbsms200bug 
	Technology        : kbSMSSearch kbSMS200 kbSMS200SP1 kbSMS200SP2
	Version           : :2.0,2.0 SP1,2.0 SP2
	Issue type        : kbprb
	
	=============================================================================
	
